Welcome Back!
A lot has happened since this prospect guide originally dropped in
March. Davante Adams and Tyreek Hill were both traded. Deshaun
Watson became a Cleveland Brown. Will Smith slapped Chris Rock on
stage at the Oscars.

Just some normal things in the year 2022.

The NFL Draft went down, too. And now that the draft is over, we’ve got
a whole lot more to analyze on the fantasy football front.

As promised, this guide got a little makeover post-draft. Portions of it
remained the same — the Year 2 Model section is unchanged, as is the
breakdown of what goes into the Z-Prospect Model — but there are
important modi cations to note:

• All draft pro les now include an updated Z-Prospect Model score
          along with their listed Draft Capital Delta.

• Relevant, higher-end rookies have an updated pro le breakdown that
          talks about the player’s new outlook. On a player’s pro le page, you’ll
          see the word “update” before their blurb, designating new information
          about the player.

• The rookie rankings cheatsheet is redone.

• A new Z-Prospect Model cheatsheet was created to provide a
          snapshot of how the model views each player. This cheatsheet also
          includes a historical hit rate chart by percentile grouping.

• V3 Update: Very slight shift in rankings alongside a x in Velus Jones’
          prospect pro le.



Let’s crush some rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            1


                                                          fi
                                                     fi
                                                fi
           fi
     fi
fi
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
                                                   JJ Zachariason | 2022 Edition
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       2
 By viewing this digital product, you agree that under no circumstances shall you use this digital product or
 any portion of this digital product for anything but your own personal use and reference. For the avoidance
 of doubt, you shall not copy, re-sell, sublicense, rent out, share or otherwise distribute this digital product,
  or any other Late-Round Fantasy Football digital product, whether modi ed or not, to any third party. You
         agree not to use any derivative of Late-Round Fantasy Football’s products in a way which might be
          detrimental to Late-Round Fantasy Football or damage Late-Round Fantasy Football’s reputation.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                       3


                                                              fi
Contents
Welcome Back! ...........................................1

About the Author ........................................5

About This Guide ........................................6

The Z-Prospect Model ....................................9

       Overview ..........................................9

       The Inputs .......................................13

       The Outputs ......................................18

       Draft Capital Delta ..............................21

       Adding Subjectivity ..............................24

       Positional Focus .................................26

2022 Prospect Profiles .................................28

       Overview .........................................28

       Key Terms ........................................29

       Z-Prospect Model Cheatsheet ......................30

       Post-Draft Rankings Cheatsheet ...................31

       Running Back .....................................32

       Wide Receiver ....................................68

The Year 2 Model ......................................108

       Overview ........................................108

       Journey Comparables .............................111

       Running Back ....................................115

       Wide Receiver ...................................125

Closing ...............................................140




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                      4
About the Author
I don’t pretend to be a professional draft scout. I’m just a 30-something-
year-old dad living in suburban Charlotte, North Carolina who’s got
access to college football data.

I’ve also got an obsession with fantasy football.

My journey as a fantasy football analyst started in 2012 when my e-
book, The Late-Round Quarterback, was published. At the time, drafting
quarterbacks near the top of your fantasy football drafts was smart. Or,
that’s what everyone wanted you to believe.

That piece of digital literature got my name out there, and about a year
after it published, I got a call from numberFire. I became numberFire’s
Editor-In-Chief in 2013. Then, the company was bought by FanDuel in
2015. Up until January 2022, I served as FanDuel’s Editor-In-Chief.

Throughout this nine-year adventure of making a living through fantasy
football, I’ve won four Fantasy Sports Writers Association awards that no
one cares about, and I’ve gotten a lot of stu wrong.

Wait, what? Did I say that out loud?

Look. I talk about what I think a bunch of dudes in pads are going to do
on a football eld. I won’t get close to everything right.

Neither will you. Neither will your leaguemates.

You don’t need to be perfect to win at fantasy football. You just need to
be better than the fools you’re playing against.

In order to do that, you need a process. You need some repeatable thing
you can do year in and year out that yields strong results.

That’s what I’m here for. I’m here to teach you that process.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     5


                                 ff
 fi
     About This Guide
     I built my rst NFL prospect model in 2017.

     I didn’t know what I was doing.

     It seemed like the right thing to do. I was about ve years into my
     professional career as a fantasy football analyst, and I needed a project
     to take my evaluation game to the next level.

     So I built a mathematical prospect model to help my dynasty fantasy
     football breakdowns. Or, I should say, a “prospect model”.

     It sucked.

     It didn’t suck because the model failed to produce hits that year.                The Nickname
     Packers running back Aaron Jones came from that class, and I — along                 “Babytron”
     with my trusty “model” — was all about him. Kareem Hunt, too. And
                                                                                    While that initial prospect model had its
     even Kenny Golladay.                                                         issues, it did get me onto Kenny Golladay
                                                                                   early, forcing me to give him the terrible
                                                                                   nickname Babytron. Detroit beat writers
     Seems pretty good, right?                                                                       have never forgiven me.


     Well, in hindsight, I was pretty fortunate. Because the model was a little
     aimless.

     It was far too convoluted, and it wasn’t solving a super speci c problem.
     Testing was done to ensure historical results made sense, but the
     process from the start of draft season to the end of it felt…o . It felt
     incomplete.

     After another year manipulating things and crossing my ngers, we hit
     the 2019 season.

     When I say the 2019 draft season was bad for your boy, I mean it was
     “went to school but forgot to wear pants” levels of bad.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                             6


                                                        ff
                                                        fi
                                                   fi
                                          fi
fi
     My model loved Andy Isabella. Loved him. It loved a 5-foot-9, 187-pound
     wide receiver from the powerhouse University of Massachusetts football
     program.

     For real.

     I’ve got nothing against any Minutemen out there. We’re just not exactly
     talking about LSU here.

     I also went against the math during that 2019 season when building my
     dynasty rookie rankings. Mecole Hardman didn’t pop whatsoever in that
     model, but I decided I’d be into him after he was selected to Patrick
     Mahomes’ Chiefs.

     Like Bruno, I don’t want to talk about it.

     After that draft analysis failure, I knew something had to change.

     So I worked. I researched. I tested.

     And I built running back and wide receiver models that are now better,
     easier to understand, and relatively simple.

     Scouting is di cult. NFL teams pump millions of dollars into their draft
     process each winter, only to select a second-rounder who contributes
     absolutely nothing for their football team. Teams let players like Stefon
     Diggs fall to the fth round. They take Clyde Edwards-Helaire over
     Jonathan Taylor.

     Let’s not pretend anyone has this completely gured out.

     That’s sort of why scouting through numbers is so intriguing.

     Traditionally — especially outside of the fantasy football world — we’ve
     seen lm grinders tell us who’s good based on what their eyes are
     showing them. There’s nothing wrong with that, but ask yourself: are the
     results that spectacular?




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    7


                                         fi
             fi
       ffi
fi
Like I’ve said, I’m no professional scout. I watch lm to make sure I don’t
sound like an idiot on podcasts, but taking pages and pages of notes
while watching a game in slow motion isn’t my thing.

My thing is numbers. And it’s communicating ideas that have to do with
numbers.

That’s what this prospect guide is all about. I’m not just going to hand
you a spreadsheet that shows some arbitrary prospect score for a player
and say, “OK, have at it!”

I’m going to explain what goes into that score, and I’m going to give you
the tools to utilize the models to their fullest potential.

We’re going to get deep into this stu .

We’re going to get nerdy.

We’re also going to win.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     8


                                     fi
                           ff
The Z-Prospect Model
Overview
Fantasy football is a numbers-driven game. It’s a game about numbers.
We care about production. So if we can nail down the most important
inputs to that production, we’ll be long-term winners.

Predicting what’s going to happen on a football eld isn’t easy. No one
should be telling you otherwise. Your goal, though, isn’t to be awless.
It’s to be better than your competition.

And, chances are, your competition probably doesn’t have a sound
process that they follow year in and year out for most things fantasy
football. With a dynasty rookie draft, they’re probably listening to people
they trust, doing a little research themselves, and subjectively picking
one guy over the next.

When we scout through numbers, we’re able to formulate a trustworthy
backbone. We can create a winning process that’s repeatable.

After the Rookie Rankings Failure of 2019™, I approached my model
building with more purpose. What was the very speci c thing I wanted to
solve?

After some thought, my brain put this out into the universe:




       The goal of the prospect models is to predict how
       well a running back and wide receiver will perform
       in fantasy football across his rst three seasons in
       the league.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                      9


                                                   fl
                                          fi
                                     fi
                           fi
     Was it random?

     …Kind of?

     The thought process behind the model’s mission was that you’re going
     to have a general idea of how good a player is after his rst three years
     as a pro. While later breakouts happen in the NFL, they’re rarer than a
     good tweet from my Twitter account.

     The next question, then, was, “How?” As in, “How do you measure
     performance for a player across his rst three seasons?”

     You could look at raw fantasy points scored, but that wouldn’t properly
     account for inevitable injuries. You could look at a player’s best points
     per game average, but sometimes uky seasons happen, too.

     To meet in the middle, I decided to average out a player’s best two
     seasons in points per game (in point per reception leagues) across the
      rst three years of his career. That could’ve come in Year 2 and Year 3,
     or it could’ve happened in Year 1 and Year 2. Whatever top-two seasons
     were best in points per game, those seasons were averaged out and
     used for that historical player.

     Moving forward, I’ll be referring to this as a player’s “B2S” score,
     standing for “best two seasons.”

     The very next thing I thought about was draft capital, or where a player
     was selected in the NFL Draft. If there was perfect correlation between
     draft capital and a player’s B2S, then why build a model in the rst          Sample Sizes and
     place? You could just look at the NFL Draft and select players in your                 Testing
     rookie draft based on that alone.
                                                                                    When you see fantasy analysts talk about
                                                                                 things like “correlation” and “R squared” on
     So, I tested it.
                                                                                        social media, keep in mind that those
                                                                                  numbers are fully dependent on the sample
     I took a giant sample of every wide receiver and running back who was                                    being analyzed.

     either drafted or who attended the NFL Combine since 2006, and I
     threw them into a database. I then associated each player with their
     draft selection, where undrafted players got assigned the same number.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                          10


                                                          fi
                                                  fi
                                  fi
                             fl
fi
After seeing the correlation between draft capital and the B2S averages
among hundreds and hundreds of players, I knew what needed to
happen next.



        I needed to beat that correlation by a signi cant
        margin to make these models worthwhile.
To reiterate what I just said, if what I was building wouldn’t be any more
predictive than draft capital itself, what was the point?

My previous, i er models utilized college production, some NFL
Combine metrics, and player age to help determine who was good and
who wasn’t. Fundamentally, I knew that scouting through numbers was
possible, and I knew a lot of the metrics I had previously utilized
mattered to some degree.



        As I tend to say, only a fraction of productive
        college players are super productive in the NFL,
        but most super productive NFL players were
        productive in college.
There had to be data trends to lean on.

Without boring you to death, I ended up testing a ton of di erent metrics
to see if I could beat draft capital. I got very close to my goal before
having the realization that draft capital itself is an important piece to the
puzzle here, too.

I mean, think about it: Where a player gets drafted has so much intrinsic
value. A group of smart people decided to choose that player. They said,
“He’s really good, we’ve got to get him in the rst round!”

That’s free evaluation for us.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        11


                                                  ff
                                             fi
                                   fi
  ffi
Not only that, but where a player gets drafted can in uence how quickly
that player is able to nd the eld. When a coach or team invests strong
draft capital in someone, chances are, they’re going to really want that
player to succeed.

So I plugged it into my model.

Voila!

With the help of draft capital, both the wide receiver and running back
models predicted a player’s best two seasons across his rst three years
way better than draft capital alone.

Oh, there’s more.

Technically, we’re not getting full utilization out of a model like this if it’s
simply beating out draft capital. In fantasy football, we’re trying to crush
our friends. Our coworkers. Strangers from hundreds of miles away who
share the obsession.

We’re not trying to be better than NFL teams.

So instead of seeing if the model was better at predicting a player’s B2S
than draft capital, I looked to see if it was more predictive than rookie
draft average draft position (ADP), or where fantasy managers were
selecting these players in drafts.

What I’m attempting to solve is di erent than what an NFL team is trying
to solve. What I’m attempting to solve is exactly what other fantasy
football managers are trying to solve.

Using My Fantasy League’s historical ADP, the results were clear: the
model I had built performed better than the public. Signi cantly better.

Phew.

The Z-Prospect Model (because my last name starts with the letter Z,
and I’m really creative) was born.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           12


                                                  fi
                                                   fi
                                             fl
                         ff
                    fi
          fi
The Inputs
You’re probably wondering what goes into this thing, huh?

Fortunately, it’s not super complicated.

Let’s start with the running back model rst.

The running back model produces a size score, which is essentially
based on a player’s Body Mass Index, or BMI. Are smaller running backs
worse at football than larger running backs? Not necessarily. Do coaches
give bigger-bodied backs more work in the NFL? Yes. Since volume
                                                                                Talent in Fantasy
drives fantasy football, that’s likely the reason BMI matters to this
                                                                                          Football
model.                                                                            Running back size is a good example of
                                                                            where we sometimes have to separate talent
                                                                                   from what matters in fantasy football.
The model also utilizes what’s called a Speed Score, which is just a
                                                                             Smaller running backs can be very e ective
weight-adjusted 40-yard dash time. Bill Barnwell thought of the metric        for NFL teams, but those teams rarely feed
years ago after recognizing that not all 40-yard dashers are alike. It’s                                    those backs.

more impressive when a 240-pound running back runs a 4.4 40 versus a
190-pound one.

And the model agrees! Mostly. A Speed Score threshold of 90 needs to
be hit — a modest number for any aspiring back — or else points are
deducted from a running back’s prospect score. But if a running back
hits, say, a 99th percentile Speed Score, it gets recognized the same
way a 65th percentile Speed Score would.

Next, there’s age. Quite simply, older running backs entering the league
get dinged a little more than someone who’s just 20 or 21 years old.

Finally, there are three main production metrics that the model utilizes
to formulate a stat score: best-season reception share, best-season total
touchdown share, and best-season total yards per team play. Each
metric has a di erent weight and degree of usability within the model.

Even though they’re running backs, there’s a lot of signal that comes
from best-season reception share, which measures the percentage of
team receptions a speci c running back accumulates.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                           13


                            fi
               fi
          ff
   ff
                          My hypothesis for this is that receptions show
                          versatility.
                 A lot of running backs with high reception shares don’t actually go on to
                 be top-notch pass-catchers in the NFL. Having a good reception share in
                 college, though, tells us that these players were used in a lot of di erent
                 ways, and that’s evidence for talent.

                 Total touchdown share is pretty self-explanatory, but it’s the total
                 number of touchdowns a running back has divided by his team’s
                 o ensive touchdown tally. Of the three metrics, it’s the least important,
                 likely because touchdowns can be a little random.

                 And then there’s total yards per team play, which is a way of showing
                 how e ective a player was within his own o ense. What’s cool about the
                 metric is that it doesn’t care about speci cally volume or speci cally
                 e ciency. If a back averaged just four yards per carry but saw a ton of
                 work, he’s still got a shot to do well within the metric. If a player is more
                 of a pass-catching specialist and was really e cient with his touches, he
                 can still be ne in yards per team play, too.

                 Size, Speed Score, age, and those three production metrics. That’s it.
                 Add in draft capital, and we’re cookin’.

                 The wide receiver model has a little more to it.

                 Age is in the running back model, but it matters a lot more at wide
                 receiver.

                 There’s a metric called Breakout Age, or the age when a college wide
                 receiver hits a Dominator Rating of 20% or greater. What’s Dominator                      Breakout Age
                 Rating? Simply put, it’s a number that measures a player’s market share                    Calculations
                 in his o ense.
                                                                                                 You’ve likely seen fantasy analysts talk about
                                                                                                  Breakout Age before, but did you know that
                 Breakout Age, then, is the age when a wide receiver sees a large share of       there’s not one singular way to calculate it? I
                 his college o ense.                                                             use a threshold that works for my model, but
                                                                                                           there’s merit to other Breakout Age
                                                                                                                                   calculations.
                 The correlation between Breakout Age and NFL performance exists




                 Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
                 Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                 14


                                                                            ff
                                                                       fi
                                                         ffi
                                                    ff
                                               fi
                     ff
                fi
           ff
      ff
ffi
ff
     because when a human being does something well at a young age, that
     human being is probably talented at doing that thing.

     If a Freshman wide receiver is regularly beating upperclassman
     cornerbacks, it’s impressive. That wide receiver hasn’t had the same
     type of practice and experience, but he’s still able to post great
     numbers.

     Along the same lines of Breakout Age is whether or not a player declared
     early for the draft.



            When a wide receiver leaves college for the NFL as
            a non-Senior, that’s a sign that he’s good at
            football. If he wasn’t, he likely would’ve stayed in
            school.
     Since 2011, we’ve seen 43 wide receivers get selected in the rst round
     of the NFL Draft. Of that group, 32 have played at least three seasons in
     the NFL — we’re not counting players who were recently drafted.

     Among those 32, 9 were non-early declares, playing a full four years in
     college.

     Let’s judge these players the same way the model does: by looking at a
     player’s best two seasons average in points per game across his rst
     three years. Or, as I called it earlier, B2S.

     When we do that, the nine wide receivers who didn’t declare early see an
     average of 8.4 PPR points per game. Their best two seasons in points                  Early-Declare
     per game over their rst three in the league averaged out to 8.4.                    First-Rounders
     The remaining 23 wide receivers — the early-declare group — saw an                Over the last couple of years, we’ve had
                                                                                      some players who could buck the recent
     average of 12.6.                                                             negative trend of rst-round wide receivers
                                                                                 busting who weren’t early declares. The most
     The list of nine players is borderline abysmal, too: Kendall Wright,                 obvious ones are Devonta Smith and
                                                                                                                Brandon Aiyuk.
     Michael Floyd, DeVante Parker, Tavon Austin, Corey Davis, Josh




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                            15


                                                             fi
                                                        fi
             fi
fi
Doctson, Kevin White, Phillip Dorsett, and AJ Jenkins.

If a wide receiver didn’t declare early, he’s not completely done for. Just
remember that we’re playing probability here. Historical numbers tell us
that early-declare wide receivers are better than the alternative.

Now, unlike the running back model, NFL Combine athleticism
measurables don’t matter for wide receivers. And while size is an input,
it’s not hugely important. At least compared to running backs.

That may sound crazy. Shouldn’t a bigger-bodied, physically-gifted wide
receiver be highly sought after?

Not necessarily.

Subjectively, you probably would want an enormous and athletic wide
receiver on your team over a tiny and slow one.



        But it’s very rare for completely unathletic wide
        receivers to get drafted early in the rst place.
Part of the reason size and athleticism isn’t a big deal in the wide
receiver model is because it’s likely already captured in draft capital,
and draft capital is in the wide receiver model.

Not only that, but wide receivers do di erent jobs on a football eld.
Cooper Kupp doesn’t win the same way DK Metcalf does. Keenan Allen
doesn’t do the same things Mike Evans does. Metcalf and Evans are
more physically dominant, and even though they’re highly productive as
pros, Kupp and Allen are, too.

If a player completely bombs the NFL Combine — and I’m talking like,
15th percentile marks across the board — you’d probably want to
remove that player from your consideration set. Chances are, though,
that same player won’t have good draft capital, and he likely wouldn’t
have had the best college production pro le. So, in the end, the lack of
athleticism and size doesn’t matter much because more important
factors weren’t going his way.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                      16


                                                     fi
                                     fi
                                fi
                           ff
      This is why it was di cult to knock Devonta Smith’s size when he was
      entering the league in 2021. Was his low BMI a concern? Slightly, I
      suppose. But Smith had an absurd production pro le while being
      selected 10th overall. To me, the biggest knock was the fact that he
      wasn’t an early-declare wide receiver, not the fact that he’s a skinny
      dude.

      If he ends up completely failing in the NFL, we can’t say it was because
      of his size.

      Moving on, there are three production statistics the wide receiver model        Z-Prospect Model
      focuses on for a player’s stat score: best-season receptions per game,
                                                                                            Stat Scores
      best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt, and best-season
      touchdown share.                                                                   You may see references to “stat score”
                                                                                      throughout the guide, and all it means is a
                                                                                           player’s score when looking solely at
      On its own, receptions per game isn’t that great of a metric. It doesn’t                              production metrics.
      even factor in team o ense or tendencies — it’s not a market share-
      related statistic.

      My guess as to why it helps the wide receiver model is because it’s
      working alongside best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt.

      Receiving yards per team pass attempt is similar to total yards per team
      play at running back in that it’s a market share statistic that kind of looks
      like an e ciency one. Big plays can admittedly skew the results of the
      metric — albeit slightly — so my guess is that adding in receptions per
      game provides a baseline for volume.

      To put that in a more consumable way, if a player is actually distorting
      his receiving yards per team play number through big plays, receptions
      per game can help bring things back to Earth. Because it’s going to be
      hard to create monster plays reception after reception. And if the
      wideout is doing that reception after reception, then he’s probably a
      good wide receiver.

      Receiving yards per team pass attempt is the metric that gets the most
      weight in the model. The one that gets the least amount of love is




      Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
      Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                             17


                                              fi
                    ff
              ffi
ffi
touchdown share, which, just like the running back model, is probably
because touchdowns bring some variance.

So we’ve got Breakout Age, early-declare status, size, draft capital, and
three production metrics. The nal two things that go into the wide
receiver model are what I call “conference factor” and “teammate
factor.” Wideouts who played in speci c conferences get additional
points added to their prospect score. That seems to matter more for the
position than at running back. And receivers who played with good
teammates in college get a slight bump, too.


The Outputs
The nice part about prospecting through data is that you can test and
see if a model works.




The table above shows the results of the wide receiver model from 2011
through 2019. The left column gives you the percentile bucket that a
prospect fell into within the Z-Prospect Model, and the middle of the
table tells you the percentage of players from that percentile to have
averaged a particular points per game mark in B2S.

Let’s pretend a wide receiver scored 10, 12, and 17 PPR points per
game across his rst three seasons in the league. We’d throw out that
average of 10 (his lowest points per game output) and completely focus
on the 12 and 17 in order to capture his B2S. The average of those two




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    18


                          fi
                   fi
     fi
     numbers is 14.5, placing that wide receiver in the “14+” bucket but not
     the “16+” one.

     Again, that’s what the B2S acronym is all about.

     As you can see, the wide receiver model isn’t spotless. In fact, players
     ranking in the 80th to 90th percentile have fared better than players
     who ranked in the 90th to 95th! It doesn’t mean the model is wrong or
     bad — that particular example is most likely due to sample size
     variance.



            What’s most important with a table like this is the
            general trends.
     There’s a very clear drop-o when a player is unable to hit the 80th
     percentile as a prospect. And if a wideout is a 95th percentile incoming
     rookie, his chance of hitting big is pret-tay, pret-tay good.

     As you know, the model is attempting to solve a player’s B2S, or the
     average of a player’s best-two seasons in PPR points per game across
     his rst three years in the NFL. Sometimes looking at things in that way
     can be a little confusing.

     Rather than stare at a chart that depicts a player’s B2S, how about one
     where it just shows his single best season in PPR points per game?




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                   19


                    ff
fi
This table should be a little easier to grasp. Essentially, among 95th to
100th percentile wide receivers from 2011 through 2019, 17% failed to
have a single double-digit PPR points per game season during their rst
three years in the league. Meanwhile, nearly 40% of them had a
campaign with 18 or more PPR points.

That’s a top- ve season at the position, for the record.

The running back visuals aren’t quite as appetizing as the wide receiver
ones.




Why does the running back model look a little worse, you ask? Well, for
starters, the model itself isn’t as predictive as the wide receiver one. And
it could be because — this is merely a hypothesis, but I think it makes
sense — fewer running backs are able to see the eld in an NFL game.

At the end of the day, a running back’s production is the result of a
coaching decision. Someone on the sidelines decided that a particular
back was worthwhile enough to be on the eld. You’d hope that it was
because the running back was #GoodAtTheGame, and that’s why we
should still care about running back talent.

But, in the end, more wide receivers are on the eld than running backs
on a given play and in a given game. That not only allows wide receiver
talent to be shown o , but it also creates a lot more gray area with these
numbers.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       20


                                                           fi
                                          fi
                                     fi
                               fi
         ff
 fi
To think of this another way, if a running back isn’t a starter, he’s not
doing a whole lot. It creates pretty binary results. If a wide receiver is the
number-three option in his o ense, he’s giving you more consistent
production than a backup running back who’s standing on the sideline.

With a running back, a coach could theoretically take a sixth-round pick
and hand him 200 carries per year over his rst three seasons in the
league. With wide receivers, they need to actually get open in order to
see a target and to produce. This is why we should all be believers that
targets are largely earned as opposed to given to wide receivers.

Regardless, the running back model’s output shares some similarities to
the wide receiver one. If a back is unable to hit the 80th percentile in the
Z-Prospect Model, then we should be skeptical of that player.

And that same conclusion can be drawn when looking at how running
backs have performed in their top season across their rst three in the
NFL.




These tables are important to keep in mind as you read through this
guide. I’ll be providing percentile scores for prospects, and you can use
those scores to get a rough idea of a player’s hit rate.


Draft Capital Delta
I’ve talked a lot about draft capital and its importance to the models.
Naturally, because it’s an input, there’s a connection between how the




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                         21


                                              fi
                                  fi
                  ff
model sees players and where they were drafted. Especially at running
back, where draft capital matters more.

Not only that, but good players are often beloved in both lm evaluation
and analytical analysis. Ja’Marr Chase broke the Z-Prospect Model last
year, but traditional scouting saw him as an insanely good prospect, too.
There’s obvious overlap in the way the model may view a player and the
way the NFL — draft capital — does.

What about when there’s not?

Back in 2020, Darnell Mooney was selected by the Bears with the 173rd
overall pick. Among the wideouts in the model’s database, that placed
Mooney in the 54th percentile for draft capital. Remember, there are a
lot of undrafted players in the sample, so 173rd may seem late when it’s
really not.

Mooney had a Z-Prospect score in the 66th percentile. That means he
looked better in the model than how the actual NFL Draft viewed him by
12 points, a margin that’s one of the highest among wide receivers in the                  A Dynasty
dataset. In turn, he’s someone who would’ve hypothetically been on my                       Sleeper?
radar coming out of the draft as a later-round rookie pick.
                                                                            While Darnell Mooney outpaced draft capital
                                                                              by a nice margin in the Z-Prospect Model,
When looking through this lens historically, it’s pretty interesting. The       one player who stood out even more was
                                                                                          49ers receiver Jauan Jennings.
model has seen 14 wide receivers since 2011 drafted before Pick 100
while outperforming draft capital by at least 5 points. That is, their Z-
Prospect percentile was at least ve percentage points higher than their
draft capital percentile.

Clearly not all of these players were hits, but there were some good ones
in there, including Tyler Boyd, Tyler Lockett, Allen Robinson, Jarvis
Landry, and Keenan Allen.

Things aren’t nearly as pretty on the ip side. Among the 18 wide
receivers drafted in the top-100 who underperformed in Z-Prospect
score versus draft capital by at least ve percentage points — the
players who were seemingly overdrafted — the biggest miss was
probably Brandon Aiyuk. Maybe Chase Claypool? Sterling Shepard?
Those are the only three wide receivers who’ve even sni ed relevancy,




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                           22


                                                 fi
                                            ff
                          fi
                          fl
                     fi
     with guys like Chris Conley, Breshad Perriman, Braxton Miller, Dante
     Pettis, and Anthony Miller joining them on the list.

     The same type of trend sort of exists at running back, too. Draft capital
     gets more weight in the running back model than it does at wide
     receiver, so our group of players being drastically better or worse than
     where they were drafted is a little smaller.

     If we were to do the exact same thing at running back as we just did with
     wide receiver, though, and if we focus on all running backs who were
     drafted, guess which running back outperformed draft capital most in Z-
     Prospect score since 2011?

     Aaron Jones.

     When looking at all undrafted running backs, guess who ranked in the
     top- ve?

     James Robinson.

     I know, I know — I can pick and choose the favorable outcomes in the
     model all day long.

     The thing is, I’ve got receipts.

     There’s a reason I was into Aaron Jones when he came out of school.
     There’s a reason I talked up James Robinson on my podcast before and
     after his NFL Draft.

     It’s because they’re players who looked strong analytically, but their
     draft capital — the general market — wasn’t there for them.

     Utilizing what I call “Draft Capital Delta” can aid you in spotting early-
     round busts and late-round gems. Like most things prospecting-related,
     it’s far from perfect. There are plenty of misses with the method. But it’s
     undoubtedly a useful tool that I’ll reference with prospect pro les.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                      23


                                                        fi
fi
          Adding Subjectivity
          These models are cool and all, but I’ll be the rst to tell you that they
          won’t give you all the answers. There are actually some fundamental
           aws to them.

          Look no further than Jaylen Waddle. Coming out of Alabama last year,
          Waddle didn’t have a very good production pro le. He didn’t have a
          great Breakout Age, and all three production metrics were below
          average.

          Waddle had a Z-Prospect score that placed him in the 96th percentile.
          Nothing wrong with that. But given he went sixth overall, he had a Draft
          Capital Delta of -3.0%, telling us that he was overdrafted.

          In that 2021 draft class, Ja’Marr Chase, Devonta Smith, Rashod
          Bateman, and Elijah Moore all had better or similar prospect scores
          compared to Waddle. My rankings, however, placed Waddle third at wide
          receiver in a tier above Bateman and Moore.

          Why?

          Nuance. That’s why.



                  Seeing how a player looks in a model can be
                  helpful, but I’ll never tell you to stop there. Looking
                  at a player’s journey and — gasp —
                  watching the player play is always a solid idea as
                  well.
          With Waddle, there were clear reasons as to why his analytical pro le
          was lacking. During his Freshman year, he outproduced rst-round wide
          receiver talent. His snaps did dip as a Sophomore, but then as a Junior
          — his nal collegiate season — he was injured after his rst four games
          played. Through those four games, he had more receiving yards for
          Alabama than Heisman winner Devonta Smith.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                   24


                                                                   fi
                                                        fi   fi
                                                 fi
                                            fi
     fi
fl
Should we make small-sample assumptions? No, of course not. We can’t
say that Waddle would’ve posted better numbers than Smith had he
played the entirety of his Junior season.

We just don’t have to think in such a black and white way.

The fact that Waddle still ranked as a 96th percentile prospect in the Z-
Prospect Model despite the poor production pro le was telling. Imagine
a world where he didn’t get hurt during his nal season! It wasn’t hard to
give him a subjective boost in rankings as a result.

Considering the Waddle example, you may be wondering why the model
doesn’t use per-game numbers for some of the metrics.

To be blunt, it’s because it doesn’t matter.

Looking at yards per team pass attempt in games played, for instance, is
good context to have, but you run into issues where a player’s top
season is all twisted because of a small sample size.

I’ve tested it, and full-season numbers work better within this model. If
more detail is needed, I can always add subjective context.

Another good illustration of where my model and rankings disagreed was
with Antonio Gibson a couple of years back.

At the start of the draft process in 2020, people didn’t even know if
                                                                                             A Post-Draft
Gibson was going to play wide receiver or running back in the NFL. He                           Demand
had mostly played wideout at Memphis, carrying the ball just 33 times in
                                                                                 The last line in my post-draft writeup about
two seasons there. That resulted in some poor numbers in the model              Antonio Gibson read, "If Washington can nd
aside from reception share.                                                      ways to get him the ball, the sky's the limit.”
                                                                                  So, uh, Washington, can we please get the
                                                                                                           man more targets?
But Gibson was a beast. Athleticism matters more at running back, and
Gibson had an even better Speed Score than Jonathan Taylor out of that
class. Add in the 66th overall draft capital, and it was easy to fall in love
with Gibson, even if the model gave him a negative Draft Capital Delta.

It’s OK to view players di erently than how a model views them.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                  25


                                       fi
                                 fi
                  fi
             ff
Let me give you one last example. Many analysts have found success
looking at return yardage as an input for wide receiver prospects. If a
wideout had a lot of return yards on punts and kicks, then it’s probably a
sign that the wide receiver has ability — coaches put their best play-
makers in those return positions.

My model doesn’t utilize return yardage, but when I’m perusing
prospects, it’s something I keep in the back of my mind as a positive
indicator.

There’s nothing wrong with doing that. There’s nothing wrong with
adding a little subjectivity to your evaluation as you use the model as
your guide.


Positional Focus
So far, you’ve learned all about the inner workings of the Z-Prospect
Model. You know which metrics are most meaningful to it, you can see
the importance of draft capital, and you’re aware that it’s not perfect.

Before sending you o to read about the 2022 class, your brain may be
wondering why I’ve put such emphasis on running back and wide
receiver and not quarterback and tight end.

Great question!

As you know, running backs and wide receivers are the lifeblood of
fantasy football. You start more of them — they’re higher in demand —
so they’re the central pieces to the game.

That alone was the reason I went on the journey of building running back
and wide receiver models. They just matter more.

But I’ve also started the creation of quarterback and tight end models,
too. It just hasn’t worked out.

Yet.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     26


         ff
I do plan on getting to a point where my analysis for quarterbacks and
tight ends has more of a foundation, but it’s harder. Straight up. There
are fewer of them, for one, and nding the right things to hone in on has
been challenging.

It doesn’t mean that I can’t analyze those positions or that a tight end or
quarterback model will never come. It’s just that, at this time, I’d rather
give you the goods on the positions that are most relevant.

Next year? We’ll have to see.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                      27


                    fi
     2022 Prospect Pro les
     Overview
     It’s rare for a running back or wide receiver to emerge as a star in the
     league without an NFL Combine invite. It certainly happens — Austin
     Ekeler and Adam Thielen both became studs after being skipped over.

     But just because there are exceptions to the rule doesn’t mean the rule
     is invalid.

     Strictly from a probability perspective, for fantasy football purposes, we
     should care most about the players who were invited to the NFL
     Combine. Period. That shouldn’t be debated.

     So that’s where the focus is at for these prospect pro les.

     There were 36 running backs invited to this year’s NFL Combine. There
     were 40 wide receivers who were awarded the same honor.



            I pro led them. Every single one of them. I looked
            at their analytical pro les, and I studied the type of
            player they may be at the next level.
     These outlooks are bound to change post-draft — and when they do, I’ll
     send you an updated version of this guide — but it’s never a bad idea to
     have a good grasp on a class before the draft happens.

     (Psst: These outlooks were updated.)




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     28


                                               fi
                                 fi
                     fi
fi
Key Terms
Z-Prospect Score: The score — often in percentile form — given to an
incoming rookie in the Z-Prospect Model. It’s based on the factors
outlined in the Z-Prospect Overview section of this guide.

B2S: The Z-Prospect Model attempts to predict how well a player will do
in fantasy football across his rst three years in the league. In doing this,
it tests against the average of a player’s top-two seasons in PPR points
per game during his rst three years as a pro. This is referred to as B2S
(Best Two Seasons).

Draft Capital Delta: The percentile di erence between a player’s Z-
Prospect score versus where he was drafted in the actual NFL Draft.
Anything under 0 means the player was overdrafted, and anything over 0
means the player was underdrafted.

Speed Score: A concept developed by Bill Barnwell to help appropriately
weight 40-yard dash times based on a player’s size. In the Z-Prospect
Model, anything under 90 at running back is a red ag.

Statistical Comparables: Players in history who appear to have similar
analytical pro les to the player being analyzed. This is based on things
like size, early-declare status, and production metrics.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       29


                                         fl
                           ff
                  fi
         fi
  fi
Z-Prospect Model Cheatsheet

                                  Running Back                                      Wide Receiver
           Rank        Player          Team   Z-Prospect      Delta      Player        Team     Z-Prospect        Delta
             1     B. Hall              NYJ      96.9%         1.8%   D. London         ATL        98.4%           0.4%
             2     K. Walker            SEA      93.2%        -0.5%   C. Olave           NO        97.9%           0.7%
             3     R. White             TB       85.4%         4.2%   G. Wilson         NYJ        97.4%          -0.2%
             4     J. Cook              BUF      83.1%        -4.4%   T. Burks          TEN        95.3%          -0.2%
             5     B. Robinson          WAS      72.1%        -6.8%   J. Williams       DET        95.1%          -1.9%
             6     T. Allgeier          ATL      70.1%         7.6%   J. Dotson         WAS        94.2%          -1.6%
             7     T. Badie             BAL      68.8%        18.2%   W. Robinson       NYG        92.6%           4.4%
             8     D. Pierce            HOU      68.0%        -8.9%   S. Moore           KC        85.5%           0.4%
             9     T. Davis-Price       SF       67.4%       -13.5%   J. Metchie        HOU        85.1%          -2.8%
            10     K. Harris            NE       66.7%        12.8%   C. Watson          GB        83.5%          -7.4%
            11     H. Haskins           TEN      64.6%        -3.9%   G. Pickens        PIT        82.5%          -3.2%
            12     P. Strong            NE       62.5%        -7.0%   D. Bell           CLE        81.8%           9.1%
            13     J. Ford              CLE      59.9%        -0.5%   T. Thornton        NE        77.8%          -8.4%
            14     I. Spiller           LAC      58.6%       -13.3%   A. Pierce         IND        77.2%          -8.2%
            15     Z. White             LV       58.1%       -14.3%   J. Tolbert        DAL        74.8%          -0.4%
            16     T. Chandler          MIN      55.2%        -3.1%   K. Shakir         BUF        67.8%           6.7%
            17     S. Conner            JAX      52.3%        -9.1%   R. Doubs           GB        66.0%           1.6%
            18     K. Ingram            ARI      50.5%         1.0%   V. Jones          CHI        61.5%         -18.2%
            19     K. Williams          LAR      50.0%        -8.9%   E. Ezukanma       MIA        53.2%         -12.6%
            20     I. Pacheco           KC       48.2%        10.4%   J. Nailor         MIN        52.7%           2.6%
            21     T. Ebner             CHI      47.4%        -0.8%   C. Austin         PIT        49.6%         -13.7%
            22     M. Borghi            N/A      44.5%         8.3%   K. Philips        TEN        49.0%          -9.1%
            23     S. McCormick         N/A      41.9%         5.7%   B. Melton         SEA        45.2%           3.2%
            24     T. Goodson           N/A      40.6%         4.4%   D. Gray            SF        42.2%         -29.1%
            25     L. Brown             N/A      35.2%        -1.0%   M. Polk           N/A        37.3%           2.3%




   Running Back (Best Single-Season PPR PPG; Years 1-3)                  Wide Receiver (Best Single-Season PPR PPG; Years 1-3)

 Percentile       < 10   > 10   > 12   > 14   > 16   > 18   > 20       Percentile   < 10   > 10     > 12   > 14    > 16   > 18   > 20

   95-100         21%    79%    71%    71%    57%    43%    36%          95-100      18%      82%   65%    53%     35%    35%    12%

   90-95          31%    69%    69%    31%    31%    13%     6%          90-95       47%      53%   42%    32%     16%    11%     5%

   85-90          19%    81%    63%    44%    25%    19%    13%          85-90       22%      78%   56%    44%     28%    17%    11%

   80-85          31%    69%    46%    31%    23%    15%    15%          80-85       45%      55%   40%    30%     25%    10%     0%

   75-80          69%    31%    25%    19%    6%      6%     0%          75-80       71%      29%   18%    18%     12%     6%     0%

   70-75          56%    44%    25%    13%    6%      6%     6%          70-75       82%      18%   14%    14%      5%     0%     0%

   65-70          85%    15%    0%     0%     0%      0%     0%          65-70       90%      10%   0%     0%       0%     0%     0%

   60-65          64%    36%    14%    14%    0%      0%     0%          60-65       87%      13%   4%     4%       0%     0%     0%

Note: Table values will change when players are drafted, as existing player percentile rankings can change.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                    30
Post-Draft Rankings Cheatsheet

     Single-QB Top-48       Position      Tier     Superflex Top-48    Position   Tier
     Breece Hall                RB           1     Breece Hall            RB        1
     Drake London               WR           1     Drake London           WR        1
     Treylon Burks              WR           2     Treylon Burks          WR        2
     Chris Olave                WR           2     Chris Olave            WR        2
     Garrett Wilson             WR           2     Garrett Wilson         WR        2
     Jameson Williams           WR           2     Jameson Williams       WR        2
     Kenneth Walker             RB           2     Kenneth Walker         RB        2
     Skyy Moore                 WR           3     Kenny Pickett          QB        2
     Jahan Dotson               WR           3     Skyy Moore             WR        3
     Christian Watson           WR           4     Jahan Dotson           WR        3
     George Pickens             WR           4     Christian Watson       WR        4
     John Metchie               WR           5     George Pickens         WR        4
     David Bell                 WR           5     John Metchie           WR        5
     James Cook                 RB           5     David Bell             WR        5
     Dameon Pierce              RB           6     James Cook             RB        5
     Trey McBride               TE           6     Malik Willis           QB        5
     Wan’Dale Robinson          WR           6     Matt Corral            QB        5
     Rachaad White              RB           6     Desmond Ridder         QB        5
     Jalen Tolbert              WR           6     Dameon Pierce          RB        6
     Alec Pierce                WR           6     Trey McBride           TE        6
     Tyquan Thornton            WR           7     Wan’Dale Robinson      WR        6
     Khalil Shakir              WR           7     Rachaad White          RB        6
     Tyler Allgeier             RB           8     Jalen Tolbert          WR        6
     Isaiah Spiller             RB           8     Alec Pierce            WR        6
     Zamir White                RB           9     Tyquan Thornton        WR        7
     Ty Davis-Price             RB           9     Khalil Shakir          WR        7
     Romeo Doubs                WR           9     Tyler Allgeier         RB        8
     Brian Robinson             RB           9     Isaiah Spiller         RB        8
     Kenny Pickett              QB           9     Zamir White            RB        9
     Calvin Austin              WR          10     Ty Davis-Price         RB        9
     Kyle Philips               WR          10     Romeo Doubs            WR        9
     Isaih Pacheco              RB          10     Brian Robinson         RB        9
     Keaontay Ingram            RB          10     Sam Howell             QB        9
     Jerome Ford                RB          10     Calvin Austin          WR       10
     Hassan Haskins             RB          10     Kyle Philips           WR       10
     Jelani Woods               TE          10     Isaih Pacheco          RB       10
     Pierre Strong              RB          11     Keaontay Ingram        RB       10
     Kevin Harris               RB          11     Jerome Ford            RB       10
     Velus Jones                WR          12     Hassan Haskins         RB       10
     Justyn Ross                WR          12     Jelani Woods           TE       10
     Malik Willis               QB          13     Pierre Strong          RB       11
     Matt Corral                QB          13     Kevin Harris           RB       11
     Desmond Ridder             QB          13     Velus Jones            WR       12
     Erik Ezukanma              WR          14     Justyn Ross            WR       12
     Tyler Badie                RB          14     Erik Ezukanma          WR       14
     Greg Dulcich               TE          14     Tyler Badie            RB       14
     Jalen Nailor               WR          14     Greg Dulcich           TE       14
     Jeremy Ruckert             TE          15     Jalen Nailor           WR       14




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                 31
Running Back


Breece Hall
RB • Iowa State Cyclones (New York Jets)

                     96.9%                                           +1.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             217

Statistical Comparables:                           Rashaad Penny
                                                   Ezekiel Elliott
                                                   Dalvin Cook

Update: Breece Hall was predictably the top running back selection in this year’s
draft, and he’s looking great in the Z-Prospect Model. The Jets may not look like
an ideal landing spot on paper, but what was the expectation? There aren’t many
high-end teams in football with a running back need, after all.

There’s little reason to worry about Michael Carter, too. Hall is an every-down
back with excellent athletic measurables who will command a large share of work in
any offense he’s in. While Carter is a fine player, he always profiled more as a
change-of-pace back in the NFL who could come through if there was an injury to
his team’s starter.

Hall was second in this running back class in Speed Score, second in best-season
total touchdown share, and second in best-season total yards per team play. And he
had a top-season reception share of 11.5% — there are no concerns about his
ability as a pass-catcher.

A near 97th percentile ranking places Hall in good company. Since 2011, 36% of
running backs in the 95th to 100th percentile range gave us a high-end RB1 season
in fantasy points per game across their first three years in the league.

Breece Hall has a legitimate chance to be a stud.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              32
Isaiah Spiller
RB • Texas A&M Aggies (Los Angeles Chargers)

                     58.6%                                         -13.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            217

Statistical Comparables:                           Miles Sanders
                                                   Joe Mixon
                                                   Todd Gurley

Update: Isaiah Spiller’s pre-draft process was not ideal, and there are two main
reasons he fell dramatically within the Z-Prospect Model since you last read this
thing.

The first is draft capital. Spiller went from potential second-round pick to being
taken in the middle of the fourth. That alone will shift his score a whole lot,
giving him a worse chance to succeed in fantasy football.

A huge reason for that is likely the second item, which is his pre-draft testing.
Spiller isn’t a great athlete, and at his Pro Day, he ran a 4.64 40-yard dash.

That presents a problem for the Z-Prospect Model.

As you read previously, a running back needs to hit a Speed Score threshold of 90
in order to not get hurt in the model. With Spiller’s Pro Day time, he’s just over
that mark. However, the model historically adjusts Pro Day times — which have
typically favored the player — in order to have a fair baseline across the
position.

With Spiller’s adjusted 40 time, he gets an 89.7 Speed Score. And given the
volatility in this section of the rankings, that drops his overall Z-Prospect
score a heck of a lot.

You can think of it this way: had Spiller come in with a Speed Score over 90, he
would’ve been in the low 70s in Z-Prospect score. That would’ve made him the
model’s RB5. If you’re high on the landing spot and think he’s better than others
do, you can treat him as such. It just wouldn’t make much sense to place him above
players like James Cook, Rachaad White, or even Dameon Pierce.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             33
Kenneth Walker
RB • Michigan State Spartans (Seattle Seahawks)

                     93.2%                                         -0.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            211

Statistical Comparables:                           Tre Mason
                                                   Darrell Henderson
                                                   Nick Chubb

Update: Kenneth Walker is so Pete Carroll.

The Seahawks took Walker in the second round of the draft despite a glaring number
of needs, but we shouldn’t be surprised. This is Seattle’s M.O.

They love their running backs.

And they’re getting a really good one in Kenneth Walker. He’s fifth in this class
in best-season total yards per team play, and that’s with a really poor receiving
profile. He’s probably the best pure runner of the group.

But that receiving profile is scary, and it’s what separates Walker from Breece
Hall. Since 2011 and before this draft, we’d seen 17 running backs drafted in the
top-100 and outside the first round who had a best-season reception share that was
under 8%. Kenneth Walker, for the record, was at 5.4%.

Over the first three years of those players’ careers, none of them had a single
season above 16 PPR points per game. None. Zero percent.

When looking at the alternative group — the players who did hit an 8% reception
share — that number shot up to over 30%.

The backs who were able to hit that reception share threshold performed better at
every points per game level, but it was most significant when looking at ceiling.
That’s the fear with Walker. He should be a rock-solid RB2, but will he ever be a
top-6 running back in dynasty?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             34
Kyren Williams
RB • Notre Dame Fighting Irish (Los Angeles Rams)

                     50.0%                                         -8.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             5’9”

Weight:                                                                             194

Statistical Comparables:                            Theo Riddick
                                                    Ito Smith
                                                    Mark Walton

No running back or wide receiver tanked his draft stock more at the NFL Combine
than Kyren Williams. In my opinion, at least.

Williams was looking decent in the Z-Prospect Model before the events in
Indianapolis, and then he weighed in at 194 pounds. We knew he was small, but
there was hope he’d get to 200.

Then the 40-yard dash happened. Williams ran an unofficial 4.72 on his first try,
and then he followed it up with a 4.70. His official time ended up being a 4.65,
but that still gave him the lowest Speed Score in this draft class.

That’s a problem. Williams’ Speed Score of 83.0 puts him in a group of running
backs that simply haven’t produced at the NFL level. In the Z-Prospect Model, it’s
tough to find many hits with that type of weight-adjusted speed.

So despite his strong 15.2% reception share, Williams went from interesting to
completely unattractive in a 24-hour period.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              35
Rachaad White
RB • Arizona State Sun Devils (Tampa Bay Buccaneers)

                     85.4%                                             +4.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                                 Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                6’0”

Weight:                                                                                214

Statistical Comparables:                               David Johnson
                                                       Jay Ajayi
                                                       Tevin Coleman

Update: If you peep Rachaad White’s top comparable, you’ll see a running back you
might’ve heard of before: David Johnson. You know who was head coach of the
Arizona Cardinals in 2015 when Johnson was drafted? Bruce Arians. You know who’s
currently part of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers front office? Bruce Arians.

Maybe Arians has a type?

Like Johnson, White’s got a super a strong receiving profile. He’s one of two
running backs in the Z-Prospect Model with a best-season total yards per team play
rate above 2.2 to go along with a best-season reception share over 20%.

The other back is Christian McCaffrey.

White can see some receiving work as a rookie, but he’s more of a handcuff in the
short term with Leonard Fournette in Tampa Bay. There’s a chance the Buccaneers
move on from Fournette in 2023, but it’s more likely to be 2024. That could really
hinder White’s ability to break out early in his career.

Nevertheless, the model likes him quite a bit, so he should be on your rookie
draft radars. We want to draft players over situation.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                 36
Tyler Allgeier
RB • Brigham Young Cougars (Atlanta Falcons)

                      70.1%                                         +7.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             224

Statistical Comparables:                           Mikel Leshoure
                                                   Derrius Guice
                                                   James Conner

Update: The Atlanta Falcons got a solid back in Tyler Allgeier. He didn’t get the
Day 2 draft capital that we typically want for a running back, but he landed in a
backfield where he could do damage right away.

At 224 pounds, Allgeier is the third-heaviest back in this class. Bigger backs who
aren’t highly touted will typically have poor receiving profiles, but not Allgeier
— he’s top-15 within the class in best-season reception share.

Is he a super explosive home run rusher? Nah. As you can see from his comparables
list, he’s more in line with what you get from James Conner.

Is that a bad thing in a wide open backfield?

With one of the best Draft Capital Deltas in the class, Allgeier is quite
intriguing.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              37
Jerome Ford
RB • Cincinnati Bearcats (Cleveland Browns)

                     59.9%                                           -0.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             210

Statistical Comparables:                           Darrynton Evans
                                                   Lamar Miller
                                                   Da’Rel Scott

Update: The Browns seem like a bad spot for a player like Jerome Ford, but keep in
mind that Kareem Hunt is a free agent next season. We know Cleveland will often
deploy multiple backs in their balanced scheme, and with Deshaun Watson in town,
the offense should be even more explosive.

Ford isn’t necessarily someone my model loves, but as you can see by his Draft
Capital Delta, it didn’t hate where he was selected. He has an average profile
overall with above-average athleticism. And a Lamar Miller comp could be worse.

This is just a general PSA: Don’t sleep on Ford’s landing spot.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              38
Brian Robinson
RB • Alabama Crimson Tide (Washington Commanders)

                     72.1%                                           -6.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             6’2”

Weight:                                                                             225

Statistical Comparables:                            CJ Prosise
                                                    Roy Helu
                                                    Mike Gillislee

Update: The Commanders visited with a lot of running backs during their pre-draft
process, and they ended up landing Brian Robinson at the tail-end of the third
round. That backfield is now messier than it needs to be.

Antonio Gibson is still the guy, but Robinson has three-down potential. Washington
probably wanted a player who could handle a big workload because Gibson hasn’t
been the healthiest back in the world since joining the league, and they got that.

Robinson’s not a bad prospect overall. He competed with top-tier running back
talent at Alabama, and that led to him not breaking out until his 2021 campaign.
That also led to him being older prospect, having just turned 23 in March.

But he had some production in every season of his collegiate career alongside that
stiff competition. That’s at least a good sign.

Robinson should be viewed as a handcuff for now, but the potential is there if
Washington loses trust in Gibson. There are only a handful of players in this
class who profile as a traditional three-down back. He’s one of them.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              39
Tyler Badie
RB • Missouri Tigers (Baltimore Ravens)

                      68.8%                                       +18.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            197

Statistical Comparables:                           Eno Benjamin
                                                   Jeremy McNichols
                                                   Aaron Jones

Update: This stat was noted in the previous version of the guide, but let’s run it
back:

Badie is one of five running backs in the Z-Prospect Model since 2011 with a best-
season total touchdown share above 45%, a best-season reception share north of
18%, and a best-season total yards per team play rate over 2.1.

The other four? Well, two of them are Jacquizz Rodgers and Donnel Pumphrey. Both
of them, though, had Speed Scores below 90, meaning they didn’t have the
athleticism to back up the production.

The remaining two are Christian McCaffrey and Aaron Jones.

Let’s not make the assumption that an undersized back is going to be CMC or Aaron
Jones, but the Ravens did get themselves a good player in the sixth round of the
draft.

It would make sense to consider Badie in the final rounds of rookie drafts given
JK Dobbins and Gus Edwards are coming off of major injuries, and the team likes to
use their running backs. If you’re in a shallower league, though, it may be tough
to buy in. His score is still under that 70th percentile mark, and it’s not like
Baltimore is going to throw the ball a lot with Lamar Jackson. The passing game is
where Badie could’ve really made an impact in fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             40
Zamir White
RB • Georgia Bulldogs (Las Vegas Raiders)

                      58.1%                                        -14.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            214

Statistical Comparables:                           Alonzo Harris
                                                   Joe Williams
                                                   Chris Carson

Update: Zamir White shared a backfield and dealt with ACL issues throughout
college, limiting his production profile. His best-season reception share was just
3.4% while James Cook, who you’ll read about in a minute, stole the show as a
receiver out of the Georgia backfield.

Honestly, the only real success we’ve seen in the model over the last decade with
that type of reception share has been Derrick Henry. And we don’t want to bet on
any player being Derrick Henry, right?

With that being said, White was a 5-star recruit out of high school, and he showed
off his athleticism at the NFL Combine with a 4.40 40-yard dash at 214 pounds.
That’s the allure with White.

We can at least find reasons as to why the math doesn’t like him very much. And
landing with the Raiders is pretty interesting — Vegas didn’t pick up Josh Jacobs’
fifth-year option, so he could be gone in 2023.

The model may not love him, but White has some things working in his favor.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             41
Dameon Pierce
RB • Florida Gators (Houston Texans)

                      68.0%                                        -8.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             218

Statistical Comparables:                           Spencer Ware
                                                   DeeJay Dallas
                                                   Christine Michael

Update: One of the top landing spots for a running back this year was Houston, and
Dameon Pierce ended up being their guy at the top of the fourth round.

Pierce didn’t have a great production profile because he wasn’t given a bell-cow
workload in college. Some will say that the coaching staff at Florida was just
irrational, but it’s still a red flag. Good players get the ball in their hands,
so why wasn’t Pierce fed more?

Pro Football Focus actually gave Pierce the highest rushing grade in all of
college football in 2021, and he ranked in the 75th percentile in yards after
contact per attempt. He’s a solid, bruising back with good size — that shouldn’t
be debated — but his best-season 7.2% reception share isn’t quite where we’d want
it to be.

Pierce’s situation feels a whole lot like what we saw with Samaje Perine back in
2017. Perine was drafted in the early fourth round to a wide-open backfield in
Washington, and that boosted his average draft position in rookie drafts to the
end of the first round. People were taking him over Alvin Kamara simply because of
landing spot, when Perine, in the Z-Prospect Model, had a 72nd percentile score.
Kamara was close to the 88th percentile.

There’s a good chance Pierce sees a lot of work during his rookie year, and he’s a
fine enough prospect. There’s nothing wrong with liking him and drafting him at
all. Just don’t let the lack of competition in the short term elevate Pierce above
obvious sure things.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              42
James Cook
RB • Georgia Bulldogs (Buffalo Bills)

                       83.1%                                       -4.4%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             199

Statistical Comparables:                           Salvon Ahmed
                                                   TJ Logan
                                                   Prince-Tyson Gulley

Update: JD McKissic was so close to signing with the Bills earlier this offseason
before going back to Washington. That showed that Buffalo was trying to fill a
pass-catching running back void, and they got their guy in the second round in
this year’s draft when they selected James Cook with the 63rd overall pick.

Cook split a backfield with Zamir White at Georgia, so his production profile
isn’t really complete. He did, however, post a 10.2% best-season reception share,
and he ran a 4.42 40 at the NFL Combine. He’s explosive with the ball in his hands
all while being arguably the best pass-catching running back in this class.

Cook definitely profiles as a satellite back, but he did weigh in a little heavier
than expected at the NFL Combine, so there’s a chance we see him take more
handoffs than anticipated in the NFL. That would really unlock his upside.

Now, Buffalo ranked 29th in running back target share in both 2020 and 2021.
Fantasy managers may be hesitant about a player like Cook as a result. But the
Bills haven’t had a back like Cook on their roster over the last couple of
seasons. Expect that positional target share to increase in 2022, and expect Cook
to make a receiving impact right away.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              43
D’Vonte Price
RB • Florida International Golden Panthers (Undrafted)

                      29.7%                                              -6.5%
                 Z-Prospect Score                                  Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                  6’1”

Weight:                                                                                  210

Statistical Comparables:                                 Bilal Powell
                                                         Chuba Hubbard
                                                         Brian Hill

Where a player went to school matters a lot less at running back than it does wide
receiver, so the fact that D’Vonte Price went to Florida International and not
Alabama isn’t a big deal to me. Partially because if it mattered, it would be
reflected in draft capital.

And we shouldn’t sit here and expect D’Vonte Price to be a top-50 pick or
anything. But he does have the right marks in his profile.

At 6’1’’, 210 pounds, he ran a 4.38 40, giving him a Speed Score that’s seventh-
best in the class. His best-season total yards per team play rate is 1.94, which
is great, and his best-season touchdown share (38.5%) and reception share (8.6%)
are fine, too.

All of that combined brings forth a serviceable back, as you can see by looking at
his statistical comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                   44
Hassan Haskins
RB • Michigan Wolverines (Tennessee Titans)

                     64.6%                                           -3.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            228

Statistical Comparables:                           Qadree Ollison
                                                   Anthony Allen
                                                   Dominique Brown

The biggest back in this year’s class is Michigan’s Hassan Haskins. He’s 6’2’’ and
weighs 228 pounds, and like most giant backs coming out of college, Haskins'
receiving profile is lacking a bit. He did catch 18 passes in 2021, but that gave
him a below-average 7.3% best-season reception share. That ranks 28th-best out of
the 36 running backs in this year’s class.

Haskins only had one season at Michigan as a true workhorse, and he tallied a 1.50
yards per team attempt in that season. There’s nothing wrong with that, but
there’s nothing special about it, either.

Haskins’ size is going to help him get drafted, but players with this type of
profile — huge backs without special production — tend to flop. You can see that
in action when looking at Haskins’ comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             45
Keaontay Ingram
RB • Southern California Trojans (Arizona Cardinals)

                      50.5%                                            +1.0%
                 Z-Prospect Score                                Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                6’0”

Weight:                                                                                221

Statistical Comparables:                               Brandon Wilds
                                                       Rico Dowdle
                                                       Sewo Olonilua

Update: You’re looking at a score with a pretty low hit rate for Keaontay Ingram,
but there’s definitely a possible positive outcome here.

The Cardinals took Ingram in Round 6 of the draft and, as we know, Arizona doesn’t
have that deep of a running back depth chart. It’s basically James Conner and Eno
Benjamin.

Benjamin had a better Z-Prospect score than Ingram, but he’s now done very little
— even with opportunity — since entering the league in 2020. That’ll happen with a
seventh-round pick.

Ingram is a bigger back who could serve as a more direct handcuff to the oft-
injured James Conner. His overall production profile isn’t super impressive, but
at 221 pounds, a best-season reception share of 9.5% is nothing to ignore.

When you consider his size, the landing spot, and the receiving profile, you could
do worse than Keaontay Ingram in the late rounds of your rookie draft.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                 46
Kevin Harris
RB • South Carolina Gamecocks (New England Patriots)

                     66.7%                                             +12.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                                 Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                5’10”

Weight:                                                                                 221

Statistical Comparables:                               Jay Ajayi
                                                       Robert Turbin
                                                       James Conner

Update: Kevin Harris has one of the highest Draft Capital Deltas in this year’s
class because his profile is objectively great. He’s got the right size, and at
that size, he was able to hit a 12% best-season reception share, something we
rarely see from 220-pound backs.

To be honest, you could consider Rhamondre Stevenson a similar player to Kevin
Harris. And, naturally, Harris is now Stevenson’s teammate.

The Patriots took both Kevin Harris and Pierre Strong in the draft, which seems
like a mess (it probably is), but there could be some longer-term upside. Damien
Harris is on the last year of his rookie deal, and James White could be out next
year as well. All of a sudden, things could open up quite a bit for other running
backs to get some production in the New England offense.

It’s admittedly difficult to cash in on Harris in rookie drafts now, but as a
late-round dart where you can bet on the talent and see what happens with Damien
Harris? Why not?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                  47
Sincere McCormick
RB • Texas at San Antonio Roadrunners (Undrafted)

                      41.9%                                         +5.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             5’9”

Weight:                                                                             205

Statistical Comparables:                            Paul Perkins
                                                    Jake Funk
                                                    Trayveon Williams

I’m being very genuine when I say this: Sincere McCormick’s profile is pretty
good.

You see what I did there?

McCormick is another smaller-school back who had solid production marks in the Z-
Prospect Model. The one spot to knock him may be on the athleticism side, since he
turned in a Speed Score of just 91.6. That’s awfully close to not hitting the
model’s threshold of 90.

But he got there. And the model likes him — at least compared to projected draft
capital — as a result.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              48
Abram Smith
RB • Baylor Bears (Undrafted)

                      21.4%                                         -14.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            213

Statistical Comparables:                           Joe Williams
                                                   Bernard Pierce
                                                   Larry Rountree

Abram Smith’s best-season total yards per team play rate of 1.81 is totally fine.
His best-season reception share of 5.5% is totally not. Combine that with a below-
average touchdown share, and you’ve got yourself a negative stat score in the Z-
Prospect Model.

Maybe we can forgive Smith a bit, because the dude played linebacker at Baylor
before committing to being a running back. Given that tidbit, it’s not a shock
that he wasn’t able to do a whole lot as a receiver.

We’ve got to work with what we’ve got. And what we’ve got is a 51st percentile
linebacker-turned-running back with mostly subpar production. To be honest,
though, his statistical comparables could’ve been far worse.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             49
Pierre Strong
RB • South Dakota State Jackrabbits (New England Patriots)

                     62.5%                                                 -7.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                                   Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                  5’11”

Weight:                                                                                   207

Statistical Comparables:                                 Elijah Mitchell
                                                         Ty Johnson
                                                         Da’Rel Scott

Update: In the pre-draft version of this guide, the Pierre Strong profile was all
about references to the fact that he looks exactly like Elijah Mitchell
analytically. Both players had iffy production profiles, and they both slayed the
40-yard dash.

Strong landed in New England. It’s an unfortunate spot for 2022 production, but
like it was noted with Kevin Harris, both Damien Harris and James White could be
out of the picture in 2023. That’s at least a little interesting, right?

The Patriots also don’t have this type of speed in their backfield, so Strong is
bringing a new element that could get him elevated sooner rather than later.

It’s tough to be in love with what went down in the draft for Strong, but long-
term, things could still fall into place.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                    50
Tyler Goodson
RB • Iowa Hawkeyes (Undrafted)

                     40.6%                                         +4.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            197

Statistical Comparables:                           Wendell Smallwood
                                                   Ralph Webb
                                                   Paul Perkins

There are a handful of productive, undersized backs who could go on Day 3 in this
class, and Tyler Goodson’s another one.

Goodson didn’t have a remarkable best-season touchdown share at Iowa, but a 26%
mark will do. His best-season total yards per team play is fine at 1.68, and he
had a best-season reception share of nearly 14%, which you love to see.

At Iowa, Goodson had decent numbers as a Freshman and Sophomore before really
blowing up this past year as a Junior. The age-adjusted production is a plus.

Goodson measured at just 5’9’’, 197 pounds at the NFL Combine, but he fortunately
ran a fast 4.42 40-yard dash to help boost his Speed Score to 103.2.

Honestly, if he was a little bit bigger, he’d be in a great spot. Thanks to his
size, his comparables aren’t all that good(son).




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             51
Jerrion Ealy
RB • Mississippi Rebels (Undrafted)

                      27.9%                                        -8.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            189

Statistical Comparables:                           Marcus Murphy
                                                   LaDarius Perkins
                                                   Prince-Tyson Gulley

It’s really hard to find valuable fantasy football running backs who weigh under
190 pounds. In fact, the Z-Prospect Model, when dating back to 2011, hasn’t seen a
single success among backs under that size. Like, there hasn’t even been close to
a hit.

Jerrion Ealy, at 189 pounds, is in trouble.

Not only is Ealy small, but he wasn’t even fast at the NFL Combine. For a smaller
back, you’d want him to run his 40-yard dash in the 4.4s. Ealy did his in 4.52,
giving him a Speed Score of 90.6.

He has a good 11.3% best-season reception share, and the hope for him in the NFL
is that he can be a satellite back. That’s not something you pay a premium for in
rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             52
Leddie Brown
RB • West Virginia Mountaineers (Undrafted)

                     35.2%                                         -1.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            213

Statistical Comparables:                           Storm Johnson
                                                   Joseph Randle
                                                   Tim Cornett

Leddie Brown was productive in both his Junior and Senior seasons at West
Virginia, providing us a best-season reception share of 12.4% and a best-season
total yards per team play of 1.60. Only six running backs in this year’s class
were able to hit those two marks.

He’s got pretty good size at 6’0’’ 213, but he didn’t test all that well at the
NFL Combine. That’s what takes his top comparable of Jeremy Langford (someone who
at least had his moments in the NFL) to Storm Johnson (someone who didn’t).

Brown isn’t someone who you should be taking in the early or middle parts of your
rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             53
Ronnie Rivers
RB • Fresno State Bulldogs (Undrafted)

                      22.4%                                          -13.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            195

Statistical Comparables:                           Ray Graham
                                                   Ralph Webb
                                                   Demetric Felton

Kyren Williams had the worst Speed Score among running backs at the NFL Combine,
but Ronnie Rivers had the second-worst mark. And he, like Williams, was under the
90.0 threshold.

That’s part of the reason the Z-Prospect Model isn’t a fan of Rivers. Other
reasons are his projected draft capital, which is somewhere between late on Day 3
to undrafted, and his age, which is 23.

Rivers did have a best-season 17.8% reception share, and his best-season touchdown
share and total yards per team play numbers are good, too. It’s the size, age,
speed, and draft capital that’s really crushing him.

Funny enough, Rivers actually compares pretty favorably to Kyren Williams. He just
probably won’t get picked as high.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             54
Ty Davis-Price
RB • Louisiana State Tigers (San Francisco 49ers)

                      67.4%                                           -13.5%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             6’0”

Weight:                                                                             211

Statistical Comparables:                            Jordan Scarlett
                                                    Bryce Brown
                                                    Chris Carson

Update: Ty Davis-Price getting picked in the top-100 of the NFL Draft was a bit of
a surprise. And then you look at who took him — the 49ers — and you just can’t
help but laugh.

Kyle Shanahan doesn’t play by any particular rules with his running backs. And
even if his team takes a running back with a Day 2 pick, it doesn’t mean they’ll
use that player. We saw that last year with Trey Sermon.

The move to get Davis-Price seems to be one where they wanted to get a reliable
complement for Elijah Mitchell. The biggest problem is that he, like Mitchell,
isn’t necessarily the best running back in the passing game. He had a 3.8% best-
season reception share and caught fewer than 30 balls across three years at LSU.

The 49ers clearly see something. And because it’s San Francisco, expect the
unexpected.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              55
CJ Verdell
RB • Oregon Ducks (Undrafted)

                     30.7%                                            -5.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            194

Statistical Comparables:                           Nyheim Hines
                                                   Marcus Murphy
                                                   LaDarius Perkins

The biggest plus to CJ Verdell’s Z-Prospect profile is that he produced
immediately when he got to Oregon. In 2018, as a Redshirt Freshman, Verdell
carried the ball 202 times for over 1,000 yards. It was actually his highest
attempt total of his collegiate career.

He dealt with an injury during his final season last year, and he ended up
weighing in a whopping 17 pounds lighter at the NFL Combine (194) versus his
listed 2021 weight (211).

Verdell’s yet another undersized back (perhaps he puts on more weight down the
line) in this class with a decent receiving profile. Maybe you feel better about
him because of his age-adjusted production. That’s logical enough. He’s also got a
pretty good top comparable of Nyheim Hines. But it’s doubtful he gets close to the
draft capital Hines got.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             56
Max Borghi
RB • Washington State Cougars (Undrafted)

                     44.5%                                         8.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            210

Statistical Comparables:                           John Kelly
                                                   Armando Allen
                                                   Eno Benjamin

Everything is pretty ordinary in Max Borghi’s profile aside from his receiving
numbers. His top season saw him with a 17.0% reception share, and that came back
in 2019 when he was a Sophomore.

That was also when Mike Leach was coaching Washington State. James Williams,
Borghi’s teammate as a Freshman, had multiple high reception share seasons under
Leach, and he didn’t become noteworthy in the NFL.

That 17.0% number is probably at least a little inflated.

The Z-Prospect Model doesn’t know that, though, which is why Borghi’s prospect
score isn’t all that bad. Borghi also has more size than Williams did — the former
weighed in at 210 pounds at the NFL Combine. His higher BMI combined with his
pass-catching ability could make him a nice PPR specialist for fantasy purposes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             57
Zonovan Knight
RB • North Carolina State Wolfpack (Undrafted)

                      25.3%                                         -10.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             209

Statistical Comparables:                           Javon Leake
                                                   Travis Homer
                                                   Nick Brossette

The one thing — probably the only thing — that stands out within Zonovan “Bam”
Knight’s Z-Prospect profile is age. By the time this prospect guide is released,
Knight will still be 20 years old. He turns 21 in April.

Age doesn’t really seem to matter for him, to be fair. As a Freshman at NC State,
Knight played 12 games, ran the ball 136 times, and rushed for 745 yards. As a
Sophomore, he ran it 143 times for 788 yards in 12 games. And during his third
season with the Wolfpack, he had 140 attempts for 753 yards in — you guessed it —
12 games.

He started to do more as a pass-catcher during his second year in college, but the
lack of progress brings forth some very average numbers in his profile. He’s
likely just a depth piece in the NFL.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              58
Jashaun Corbin
RB • Florida State Seminoles (Undrafted)

                      29.4%                                        -6.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             202

Statistical Comparables:                           Daniel Lasco
                                                   Storm Johnson
                                                   Evan Royster

Draft capital probably won’t be there for Jashaun Corbin, but there are worse
profiles in this class. His best attribute is a near 12% best-season reception
share, a number matched or exceeded by just nine other backs who were at the NFL
Combine. His top total yards per team play season gave him a sum of just 1.31,
though, which is a definite red flag.

There are actually a lot of similar players to Corbin in this year’s class.
Nothing about him analytically stands out, hence the mediocre comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              59
Zaquandre White
RB • South Carolina Gamecocks (Undrafted)

                     15.6%                                           -20.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            206

Statistical Comparables:                           Kenyan Drake
                                                   Michael Cox
                                                   Justin Crawford

Zaquandre White started his collegiate journey as a linebacker for Florida State
before transferring to JUCO in 2019. After one year of junior college, he found
himself at South Carolina, stealing looks from the aforementioned Kevin Harris in
the Gamecocks offense.

White wasn’t able to give us great production in a split backfield. Each
production metric of his is below average, and his best-season yards per team play
rate is under 1.0, a definite concern.

According to NFL Mock Draft Database, White’s currently projected to be drafted
ahead of his college teammate, which is tough for me to understand on the
analytical side. Yes, White was more efficient per touch this past year, but
Harris is almost two years younger, has better size, and played ahead of White in
college. There’s a reason efficiency metrics aren’t huge in the Z-Prospect Model:
they’re not very predictive.

White does have an OK top comparable of Kenyan Drake, but I would be surprised if
he had a Drake-like impact in the league.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             60
Ty Chandler
RB • North Carolina Tar Heels (Minnesota Vikings)

                      55.2%                                           -3.1%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             5’11”

Weight:                                                                              204

Statistical Comparables:                            Justice Hill
                                                    Elijah Mitchell
                                                    Jeremy Langford

With lower-tiered prospects who have average production profiles — Ty Chandler
fits that mold — you ideally want them to be good athletes. It can be a
differentiator.

And that’s what we’ve got with Chandler. He did have a best-season reception share
of nearly 11%, but his stat score is nothing special in the model.

On the plus side, he ran a 4.38 40-yard dash, giving him a 90th percentile Speed
Score.

Like Pierre Strong, Chandler is a candidate to be this year’s Elijah Mitchell —
Mitchell is one of his top-three comparables in the model. Will he have that big
of an impact? Almost definitely not. It’s just good to see decent players hit a
Day 3 pick’s comparable list.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                               61
Kennedy Brooks
RB • Oklahoma Sooners (Undrafted)

                     18.5%                                            -17.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            215

Statistical Comparables:                           Larry Rountree
                                                   Nick Wilson
                                                   Travon McMillian

A 3.8% best-season reception share won’t help Kennedy Brooks’ Z-Prospect score,
but his best-season yards per team play rate of 1.57 is above average. He’s got
pretty standard size, and he’s likely to be limited to an early-down role in the
NFL.

It’s hard to find comparables for Brooks because of his reception share and yards
per team play combination. Larry Rountree is similar enough, but his production
was stronger in college. So think of Brooks as a lesser version of Rountree.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             62
Trestan Ebner
RB • Baylor Bears (Chicago Bears)

                     47.4%                                        -0.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             206

Statistical Comparables:                           TJ Logan
                                                   Cyrus Gray
                                                   Johnny White

Trestan Ebner seems like a similar prospect as Ty Chandler and Pierre Strong — AKA
the guys who look most like Elijah Mitchell in this year’s class — but he’s got
more issues to his profile than they do.

Ebner’s 11.8% best-season reception share is really good for a lower-tiered
player, but his best-season 1.17 total yards per team play is not. For reference,
Chandler was at 1.47 in best-season yards per team play, Strong was at 1.52, and
Mitchell, last season, was at 1.48.

That’s Ebner’s big red flag. He had a great Speed Score at the NFL Combine and is
similar in size as those other guys, but he wasn’t productive on the ground at all
for Baylor. He only hit 70-plus attempts in one of his five seasons there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              63
Isaih Pacheco
RB • Rutgers Scarlet Knights (Kansas City Chiefs)

                      48.2%                                           +10.4%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             5’10”

Weight:                                                                              216

Statistical Comparables:                            Damien Williams
                                                    Alonzo Harris
                                                    Karlos Williams

Update: The running back with the fastest weight-adjusted 40-yard dash time at the
NFL Combine found a home in the NFL, and it’s a good one.

Kansas City made Isaih Pacheco a Chief in the seventh round of this year’s draft,
and given his +10.4% Draft Capital Delta, it looks like a steal.

Before this year’s draft and since 2011, only Leonard Fournette, Derrick Henry,
Robert Turbin, AJ Dillon, and Jonathan Taylor have been selected in the draft
while having captured a Speed Score of 115 or better and a best-season touchdown
share of 35% or better. In other words, they moved incredibly fast for their size,
and they did well in the touchdown column in college.

This year, Breece Hall joined that group.

So did Isaih Pacheco.

Kansas City starter Clyde Edwards-Helaire’s biggest issue in the NFL has been that
he lacks explosion. In 2021, CEH was actually second-best in the league (minimum
100 carries) at gaining positive yardage on the ground per attempt. He was also
last in the league at gaining 20 or more yards.

It’s that lack of explosion that likely led the Chiefs to sign Ronald Jones this
offseason.

But what about Pacheco?

Oh, and get this: Pacheco’s top comparable in the model, Damien Williams, just
happens to be another uber-athlete who thrived in Andy Reid’s offense.

Pacheco should be a top late-round target in rookie drafts.


Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                               64
Snoop Conner
RB • Mississippi Rebels (Jacksonville Jaguars)

                     52.3%                                          -9.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             222

Statistical Comparables:                           Jonas Gray
                                                   Spencer Ware
                                                   Allen Bradford

Some will like Snoop Conner for his size. He’s 5’10’’ and weighs 222 pounds,
giving him the thickest BMI in this year’s class.

He just doesn’t have the production profile that we need for a successful fantasy
back. His best-season yards per team play is just 0.72, and he didn’t have a
single season with a reception share above 5.0%. He’d be a big outlier if he works
out in the NFL.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              65
Jaylen Warren
RB • Oklahoma State Cowboys (Undrafted)

                     32.0%                                           -4.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            204

Statistical Comparables:                           Devine Redding
                                                   Demario Richard
                                                   Terron Ward

We’re getting pretty deep into the running back list with Jaylen Warren, an
Oklahoma State running back who transferred from Utah State before the 2021
season. Warren ran the ball 256 times for over 1,200 yards last year, but he still
generated a fairly low 1.35 total yards per team play rate.

His production profile is one of the most average you’ll find in this year’s
class. He has a beefier frame at 5’8’’, 204 pounds, but he’s not someone who
should be on your radar right now.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             66
Greg Bell
RB • San Diego State Aztecs (Undrafted)

                      24.2%                                       -12.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             201

Statistical Comparables:                           Jeff Wilson
                                                   Tim Cornett
                                                   Jay Finley

Greg Bell has an awfully similar best-season production profile to the
aforementioned Jaylen Warren, except he played for a smaller program and isn’t on
#TeamThicc. His top mark in the Z-Prospect Model is a best-season 35.0% touchdown
share, but touchdown share matters least among the three production metrics.

When looking at comps, we do get Jeff Wilson, who’s had his moments in the NFL.
It’s still highly unlikely we see Bell as anything more than a depth piece for an
NFL team.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              67
Wide Receiver


Treylon Burks
WR • Arkansas Razorbacks (Tennessee Titans)

                     95.3%                                          -0.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            225

Statistical Comparables:                           Alshon Jeffery
                                                   Allen Robinson
                                                   Stephen Hill

Update: The Titans shocked the football world during the first night of the NFL
Draft when they traded away stud wideout AJ Brown to the Eagles. They followed the
trade up by selecting Treylon Burks, a player many compared to Brown during the
pre-draft process.

Making the assumption that Treylon Burks is AJ Brown would be foolish, but that’s
at least the archetype Tennessee is looking at. At 225 pounds, Burks is the
beefiest wideout in this year’s class. He’s a monster with the ball in his hands
and can generate a ton of yards after the catch with his physical style of play,
just like Brown.

The question mark is whether he can reliably get the football. Per Pro Football
Focus, Burks played just 39 snaps against press coverage in 2021, largely because
77% of his career snaps came from the slot. You have to do a little more
projecting for Burks than some of the other top receivers in this class.

But his best-season yards per team pass attempt rate is third-best among wideouts
who were invited to the NFL Combine this year, and he exited the draft with a very
solid 95th percentile score in the Z-Prospect Model. He’s not ranked as the WR1 in
this class, but it shouldn’t surprise anyone if he ends up as that guy when we
look back on this draft. There’s just more volatility to his profile than some of
the other pass-catchers who were drafted in the first.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             68
Drake London
WR • Southern California Trojans (Atlanta Falcons)

                      98.4%                                            +0.4%
                 Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                              6’4”

Weight:                                                                              219

Statistical Comparables:                             Tee Higgins
                                                     Jordan Matthews
                                                     Mike Evans

Update: Drake London is the Z-Prospect Model’s top wide receiver in this class.

Why shouldn’t he be? He produced as a Freshman while playing alongside two
productive NFL wide receivers in Michael Pittman and Amon-Ra St. Brown. He
averaged 11 receptions per game during his top collegiate season, a number that
hasn’t been matched by a single drafted Power Five wide receiver since 2011. He’s
6’4’’, 219 pounds and compared favorably to Tee Higgins and Mike Evans in the Z-
Prospect Model.

London became just the ninth 200-plus pound early-declare wide receiver to get
top-10 draft capital over the last 12 drafts. The others who fit that criteria? AJ
Green, Julio Jones, Justin Blackmon, Sammy Watkins, Mike Evans, Amari Cooper, Mike
Williams, and Ja’Marr Chase.

Not bad company, eh?

Landing on the Falcons isn’t necessarily ideal, but he’ll have a chance to capture
one of the largest target shares among all rookie wideouts in Year 1 given the
team’s wide receiver depth chart. With the situation likely only getting stronger
post-2022, the sky’s the limit.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                               69
Garrett Wilson
WR • Ohio State Buckeyes (New York Jets)

                     97.4%                                           -0.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            183

Statistical Comparables:                           Jerry Jeudy
                                                   CeeDee Lamb
                                                   Diontae Johnson

Update: The reason Garrett Wilson was so attractive pre-draft was because of
safety. He’s just a really, really solid wide receiver who moves effortlessly to
create separation across all levels of the field. And while projected draft
capital was fluctuating for other receivers in this class over the last couple of
months, it wasn’t for Wilson. He was consistently mocked as a top-15 pick.

He went 10th overall to the Jets, where he’ll immediately compete with Elijah
Moore as the team’s top wide receiver. And that’s a little unfortunate. Both
players rated extremely well in the Z-Prospect Model, and when players are good,
they see volume. We’ll likely be projecting at least 20% target shares for both
guys over the next few seasons while they’re still playing together on their
rookie contracts.

But when a wide receiver has top-notch competition on his team, it can cap that
wideout’s ceiling. If there were concerns about Elijah Moore’s potential, this
would be an easier evaluation. Moore just looks like a stud. So in order for these
two to really thrive in fantasy football — for them to hit WR1 seasons together
like we’ve seen wide receiver duos do in the past — they’ll likely need
quarterback Zach Wilson to take a step forward.

There’s nothing wrong with a couple of WR2s in fantasy, though, and given the
current state of the Jets, that’s a very possible outcome over the next three
seasons. Wilson is still a nice option for risk-averse fantasy managers — the
floor will be there because he’s a talented wide receiver.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             70
Jameson Williams
WR • Alabama Crimson Tide (Detroit Lions)

                      95.1%                                        -1.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            179

Statistical Comparables:                           Calvin Ridley
                                                   Jerry Jeudy
                                                   Dyami Brown

Update: Jameson Williams’ draft stock kept rising and rising during the pre-draft
process, and everything came together when the Lions traded up to get him with the
12th overall pick.

Plenty of draft analysts had Williams as their top receiver in this class. He can
separate from defenders with his down-the-field speed, and that ability fits well
in today’s NFL. Had he not torn his ACL in the National Championship game, maybe
he would’ve been selected ahead of Drake London.

Analytically, Williams has two concerns. The first is size. He weighed in at only
179 pounds, and while we shouldn’t oversell the importance of size at wide
receiver, BMI does get some weight (get it?) in the Z-Prospect Model. He had the
third-leanest frame of all wide receivers at the NFL Combine this year.

The other numbers-related “issue” is the fact that he didn’t produce until his
Junior season. We can forgive that to a large degree because, before transferring
to Alabama, he played with three stars at wide receiver at Ohio State. That’s just
not always going to be captured well within a model.

In the end, Williams still hit the 95th percentile in the Z-Prospect Model, so it
wouldn’t make sense to criticize anyone who still likes him as the top receiver in
this class. The landing spot in Detroit may not be great in the short term, but
Williams could also get off to a slow start given his ACL recovery anyway. If
you’re able to get him in the middle of the first round of your rookie drafts,
that’s a big win.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             71
Chris Olave
WR • Ohio State Buckeyes (New Orleans Saints)

                     97.9%                                         +0.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            187

Statistical Comparables:                           Will Fuller
                                                   Zay Jones
                                                   Devonta Smith

Update: Chris Olave was a big draft-day winner. His projected draft capital back
in March was in the mid-20s, but New Orleans moved up in the draft and ended up
taking him 11th overall. As a result, his Z-Prospect Model score went from 94.6%
to 97.9%, and he’s now the model’s WR2 within the class.

It’s a little surprising that he edged out Garrett Wilson. Olave isn’t an early-
declare wideout, and Wilson beat him out in both receptions and receiving yards
this past year despite Olave’s extra year of college experience.

Olave did have a better Breakout Age than Wilson, and his best-season production
metrics were stronger, too. That’s why, with almost identical draft capital, he
looks slightly better. Even without early-declare status.

The fit with New Orleans is fantastic. He complements Michael Thomas perfectly —
Olave can stretch things out with his sub-4.4 speed, and that’ll allow Michael
Thomas to do his typical work in the short areas of the field. Thomas is also 29
years old, so Olave’s not stuck in the same predicament that Garrett Wilson’s in.

Reception Perception’s Matt Harmon dubbed Olave the best route runner in this
class. He’s clearly a great prospect. There’s no reason to be scared off because
of his lack of early-declare status, especially considering none of his production
from his Senior season is helping his Z-Prospect score.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             72
David Bell
WR • Purdue Boilermakers (Cleveland Browns)

                     81.8%                                         +9.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            212

Statistical Comparables:                           Davante Adams
                                                   DeVier Posey
                                                   Chris Godwin

Update: After stinking up the NFL Combine, there was thought that David Bell
wouldn’t even be a Day 2 pick in the draft. Cleveland made sure he didn’t make it
to Round 4, taking him with their 99th selection.

The Z-Prospect Model loves Bell. He’s got the highest Draft Capital Delta of any
wide receiver who was picked in the first three rounds this year, and that number
is second-highest among wideouts selected between picks 32 and 100 since 2011. The
only player ranked ahead of him is Keenan Allen, and the players ranked just
behind Bell in Draft Capital Delta are Jarvis Landry and Tyler Boyd.

Interestingly, none of those players tested as superior athletes. They all were
subpar ones during their pre-draft process. And, funny enough, Bell is sort of
replacing Jarvis Landry in Cleveland. Given the way he used his body to make
contested catches in college, it would make sense for him to play a slot role in
the NFL. That’s exactly what he can do for the Browns right away.

The fantasy football market has been low on Bell since his miserable NFL Combine
performance. He’ll probably be a strong value in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             73
Wan’Dale Robinson
WR • Kentucky Wildcats (New York Giants)

                     92.6%                                          +4.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            178

Statistical Comparables:                           Elijah Moore
                                                   Tutu Atwell
                                                   Marquise Brown

Update: The Z-Prospect Model was bullish on Wan’Dale Robinson entering the draft,
and the Giants didn’t calm things down by taking him 43rd overall.

Robinson has arguably the best production profile in this entire class. No wideout
had a better best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt rate, and
Robinson’s top season in receptions per game was an impressive 8.0.

The problem? He’s small. He measured at just 5’8’’ at the NFL Combine, and as the
last version of this guide noted, the best wide receiver in the Z-Prospect Model
since 2011 with that height (or shorter) is probably Jamison Crowder. (Tyreek Hill
was that size at his Pro Day, but he’s measured taller in the NFL.)

One of Robinson’s top comparables in the model is Tutu Atwell, a small, productive
college receiver who was selected in the second round last year. That’s going to
be at the top of a fantasy manager’s mind when they see Robinson sitting there in
their rookie draft. The size concern is very real for Robinson, but he’s got a
much thicker frame. He’s not quite Tutu Atwell.

It makes sense to subjectively downgrade Robinson versus what the model is saying.
The thing is, the dynasty community seems to be pessimistic about Robinson because
of this size issue. In turn, there’s a chance he’s actually a nice value in rookie
drafts this year, since managers aren’t always reactive enough to draft capital.

So, yes, there’s variance with Robinson despite a near 93rd percentile score in
the Z-Prospect Model. But there’s also a decent chance he’s someone you should get
a lot of in rookie drafts if his cost doesn’t budge much.

Even if you go against the model, you can still utilize some math to beat the
market.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             74
George Pickens
WR • Georgia Bulldogs (Pittsburgh Steelers)

                      82.5%                                       -3.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            195

Statistical Comparables:                           Nico Collins
                                                   Tee Higgins
                                                   Aaron Dobson

Update: George Pickens’ analytical profile is a little tough to figure out given
the only full season he played at Georgia was when he was a first-year player.
Injuries derailed his collegiate career, so his production numbers aren’t great.
His Breakout Age is great, though, after he led the Bulldogs in receiving as a
true Freshman.

Many thought Pickens would go in Round 1, but he fell all the way to the Steelers
at Pick 52 in the NFL Draft. The Pittsburgh offense is young with playmakers all
over the field, and Pickens is unlikely to see much action in two-wide receiver
sets as a rookie. But Diontae Johnson still hasn’t gotten his second contract, and
Chase Claypool saw a decline in performance in Year 2 last season. Don’t rule out
the idea that Pickens could be the Steelers’ number-one wide receiver in 2023.

Pickens is one of few pass-catchers in this class who can play a traditional X
role and produce alpha-like numbers in fantasy football. That’s where the Tee
Higgins comparison comes into play. We just can’t make the assumption that he gets
there given the incomplete profile overall.

Consider Pickens a medium-risk, high-reward selection in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             75
Jahan Dotson
WR • Penn State Nittany Lions (Washington Commanders)

                     94.2%                                                 -1.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                                  Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                 5’11”

Weight:                                                                                  178

Statistical Comparables:                                TY Hilton
                                                        Sterling Shepard
                                                        Vincent Brown

Update: Jahan Dotson going 16th overall to the Commanders wasn’t expected. It’s
not that he’s a bad player — he’s top-10 in best-season yards per team pass
attempt and touchdown share in this class. It just seemed like he was more of a
fringe first-round selection.

That boost in draft capital moved Dotson from an 88th to 89th percentile wide
receiver in the model to a 94th percentile one. He’ll play alongside Terry
McLaurin for the time being with a questionable starter at quarterback, but the
situation in Washington can change fast. McLaurin’s on the last year of his rookie
deal, and Carson Wentz could be gone as soon as 2023 if things go south.

Dotson may not have the size to be an elite fantasy wide receiver, but he plays
bigger than his 178-pound frame. And he might have the best hands in this class.
Don’t underestimate him. And don’t overstate his situation.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                   76
Skyy Moore
WR • Western Michigan Broncos (Kansas City Chiefs)

                     85.5%                                           +0.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                               Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                              5’10”

Weight:                                                                               195

Statistical Comparables:                             DJ Moore
                                                     Andy Isabella
                                                     Jarvis Landry

Update: Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.

Skyy Moore is a Kansas City Chief. He gets Patrick Mahomes. We get fantasy
football goodness.

As the pre-draft prospect guide said, Moore’s the only player in the class with
top-season marks of at least 7.0 receptions per game, a 3.4 yards per team pass
attempt rate, and a 40% touchdown share.

Take a look at the wide receivers to hit those marks while being drafted in the
top-70 (Moore went 54th to the Chiefs) since 2011: Cooper Kupp, Tyler Boyd, Amari
Cooper, Tyler Lockett, Jordan Matthews, Sammy Watkins, Allen Robinson, Andy
Isabella, Devonta Smith, and Elijah Moore.

Moore’s a smaller-school player, and that always makes a wide receiver prospect
iffier. Thankfully, he’s an early-declare wideout. Over the last 12 drafts, the
only non-Power Five early-declare receivers to go in Round 2 have been Courtland
Sutton and Davante Adams.

We’ll take it!

He doesn’t rank as highly as the first-round wide receivers from this draft, but
don’t be surprised if Moore is the best Chiefs’ wide receiver in 2023. He’s got
that much potential.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                77
Khalil Shakir
WR • Boise State Broncos (Buffalo Bills)

                      67.8%                                        +6.7%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            196

Statistical Comparables:                           Cooper Kupp
                                                   AJ Jenkins
                                                   Taywan Taylor

Update: You couldn’t have asked for a better landing spot for Khalil Shakir.

Shakir played a lot in the slot at Boise State, and he put together one of the
most complete production profiles in this class. He’s actually just one of four
wide receivers in the group who had a best-season receptions per game of 7.0 and a
yards per team pass attempt rate of 3.2. The other three to hit those? Chris
Olave, Skyy Moore, and Wan’Dale Robinson, three players who were drafted in the
top-60.

The Bills signed Jamison Crowder this offseason, but he’ll be an unrestricted free
agent in 2023. Isaiah McKenzie is there, too, and while he’s flashed, he hasn’t
become a reliable threat out of the slot yet.

Shakir has a real opportunity to fit right into that slot role and play alongside
Stefon Diggs and Gabriel Davis in one of the most attractive offenses in all of
football. Considering the Z-Prospect Model likes him a lot, you should target him
in your rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             78
Jalen Tolbert
WR • South Alabama Jaguars (Dallas Cowboys)

                     74.8%                                         -0.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            194

Statistical Comparables:                           Dede Westbrook
                                                   Terrance Williams
                                                   AJ Jenkins

Update: The landing spot for Jalen Tolbert in Dallas is an intriguing one. It
could signal that the Cowboys want to use CeeDee Lamb more in the slot, since
Tolbert profiles as a perimeter wide receiver. So that’s a plus for Lamb, but it’s
also a sign that Tolbert can find the field pretty quickly if things go well
during training camp.

Small-school wide receivers get knocked in the Z-Prospect Model, and that’s no
different for Tolbert. He at least produced well at South Alabama, though, with
the second-highest best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt in this
year’s class.

He’s got a wiry frame, making the Dede Westbrook comparison an easy one. His
second comparison is actually a former Cowboy in Terrance Williams, so maybe Jerry
Jones and company have a type?

Overall, it’s a great spot for Tolbert to go. Ranking in the 74th percentile
doesn’t give him great odds to truly hit, but no one is going to be expecting that
in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             79
Christian Watson
WR • North Dakota State Bison (Green Bay Packers)

                     83.5%                                           -7.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                             6’4”

Weight:                                                                             208

Statistical Comparables:                            DJ Chark
                                                    Kenny Golladay
                                                    Mike Strachan

Update: Christian Watson dropped into the goldmine landing spot after getting
selected by the Green Bay Packers at the top of the second round. Given the team’s
depth chart, he should be able to find the field right away.

The Z-Prospect Model doesn’t love him as much as a fantasy manager in your rookie
draft probably will. The model doesn’t factor in specific landing spot, so you’ve
got to give Watson a little more love subjectively, but there are certainly red
flags to his profile.

Watson’s a smaller-school player with good-not-great production, and he’ll be 23
years old when the season kicks off. He’s also a non-Power Five wideout without
early-declare status. Since 2011, we’ve seen seven wide receivers drafted in the
second round matching that criteria: Anthony Miller, Zay Jones, Aaron Dobson,
Titus Young, Andy Isabella, D’Wayne Eskridge, and Brian Quick.

That’s not the group you want to be mentioned with.

On the plus side, Watson is a crazy-good athlete with a lot of size, and sometimes
that translates. We saw that recently with Chase Claypool. There’s just a lot of
risk to this type of profile, because it’s clear that Watson’s stellar combine
pushed him up draft boards. We should always lean on age-adjusted production over
athleticism at wide receiver.

Whether or not you draft Watson in fantasy will depend entirely on your risk
tolerance. The ceiling is there — especially since he’s got Aaron Rodgers throwing
him the rock now — but the floor is scary.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              80
Justyn Ross
WR • Clemson Tigers (Undrafted)

                     33.6%                                            -1.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            205

Statistical Comparables:                           Terrace Marshall
                                                   Nico Collins
                                                   Bryan Edwards

Update: Unfortunately, Justyn Ross’ medicals seemed to have pushed him out of the
NFL Draft. It was just important to make note of that because he was once a
really, really promising prospect. His elite Breakout Age paired with his size
made him a George Pickens arbitrage play, but it’s too difficult to go after him
now given the way the draft went down.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             81
Romeo Doubs
WR • Nevada Wolf Pack (Green Bay Packers)

                     66.0%                                         +1.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            201

Statistical Comparables:                           Tajae Sharpe
                                                   Leonard Hankerson
                                                   Kenny Golladay

Update: It’s no secret that the Packers need wide receivers. They took Christian
Watson with an early second-round selection, and then they went back to the
position in Round 4, selecting Nevada’s Romeo Doubs.

Doubs can be utilized down the field. He ranked in the top-30 in deep-ball yards
and receptions last season, per Pro Football Focus, and he was third in college
football in deep-ball yards in 2020, trailing only Devonta Smith and Dyami Brown.
He didn’t run at the NFL Combine, but the Packers reportedly clocked him at a 4.50
40-yard dash at his Pro Day, so there doesn’t seem to be any huge issues with
speed.

In the Z-Prospect Model, Doubs has above-average numbers. His best-season
receiving yards per team pass attempt rate is 2.79, a number well above the norm,
and he averaged over 7 receptions per game during his top season. And he broke out
before hitting 20 years old.

The Packers might be wanting to replace Marquez Valdes-Scantling with Doubs. If he
falls enough in rookie drafts, he’s fine to take a chance on, but ground yourself
and remember that he still ranks as just a 66th percentile wide receiver in the Z-
Prospect Model.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             82
John Metchie
WR • Alabama Crimson Tide (Houston Texans)

                     85.1%                                        -2.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             187

Statistical Comparables:                           Keke Coutee
                                                   Chad Hansen
                                                   Tandon Doss

Update: Alabama wide receivers who were at least moderately productive in college
are bound to get decent draft capital. That’s what we saw with John Metchie, who
was selected by Houston with the 44th pick in the draft.

Probably the biggest issue with Metchie’s analytical profile is his best-season
touchdown share. It was just 16.7%. Since 2011, of the Z-Prospect Model wide
receivers who had one or more 15-plus PPR point per game season during their first
three years in the league, just 5.1% of them had a best-season touchdown share
that low.

And every player within that 5.1% had some sort of reason as to why the touchdown
share was so low, whether it was due to off-the-field issues or injury-related
ones.

It’s not the end of the world, but Metchie is likely going to have to be a decent
outlier to have a truly high ceiling in fantasy football. He can be plenty
productive as a consistent WR3, though. And if all goes well with his ACL
recovery, he should be able to find the field immediately in this Houston Texans
offense. Don’t underrate his ability to lift his dynasty value as a rookie.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              83
Calvin Austin
WR • Memphis Tigers (Pittsburgh Steelers)

                     49.6%                                         -13.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            170

Statistical Comparables:                           Tavon Austin
                                                   KJ Hamler
                                                   Rondale Moore

Update: The Steelers continued to add to their wide receiver room on Day 3 of the
NFL Draft, snagging Calvin Austin in Round 4. He’ll play behind the aforementioned
George Pickens, Diontae Johnson, and Chase Claypool in the short term, but he
could see some slot work in the offense as a rookie.

Austin’s a dynamic playmaker. He ran the 40-yard dash at the NFL Combine in 4.32
seconds, and he did a little bit in the return game as a Junior and Senior at
Memphis, too.

His size is a big worry for fantasy football. It’s unlikely we see him really
dominate touches, so he may be a better selection in a best-ball format where you
don’t have to pick and choose when his inevitable big play is going to come.

Had he gotten Day 2 draft capital, maybe there’d be reason to be more bullish.
It’s just tough to see Austin as more than a random spark in the Steelers offense.
(And a Ray-Ray McCloud replacement.)




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             84
Alec Pierce
WR • Cincinnati Bearcats (Indianapolis Colts)

                      77.2%                                        -8.2%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            211

Statistical Comparables:                           Chris Conley
                                                   Amara Darboh
                                                   Equanimeous St. Brown

Update: Athletic wide receivers who lack production aren’t beloved by the Z-
Prospect Model. That’s why Alec Pierce is tied with the lowest Draft Capital Delta
among the 13 wide receivers selected in the first two rounds of this year’s draft.

If you want to look at this optimistically, Pierce fell to a team where he’s got a
real shot to get into the game as a rookie. Indy’s only reliable wide receiver is
Michael Pittman. And Pierce’s extreme athleticism may overcome the poor production
profile. We have to keep an open mind: sometimes that happens.

But, uh, let’s talk about that production profile. Pierce isn’t an early-declare
wideout. He’s not coming from a big program, despite Cincinnati’s success last
year. His best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt rate was just 2.21, a
number hit by more than half of the wide receivers in this class who were at the
NFL Combine. And he also never reached a touchdown share of 30% in a single
season.

The landing spot is above average, but the rest is below average.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             85
Erik Ezukanma
WR • Texas Tech Red Raiders (Miami Dolphins)

                     53.2%                                         -12.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            209

Statistical Comparables:                           Donovan Peoples-Jones
                                                   Chris Moore
                                                   DaeSean Hamilton

Update: The only reason there’s an updated writeup for Ezukanma is because of what
was said about him in the guide pre-draft. To quote myself:

Ezukanma has good size at 6’2’’, 209 pounds, and he’s versatile. He played a
little running back in high school, and could be deployed all over the field in
the NFL. That uniqueness to his scouting report could get a team to pick him
higher than expected in the draft.

Are we shocked that Mike McDaniel’s team took a player whose skillset sorta kinda
looks like Deebo Samuel’s?

No, Erik Ezukanma is not Deebo Samuel. His production snapshot is not as strong,
and Deebo is forever going to be nearly impossible to replicate. It’s just a fit
that made too much sense.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             86
Kyle Philips
WR • UCLA Bruins (Tennessee Titans)

                     49.0%                                         -9.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             189

Statistical Comparables:                           Michael Campanaro
                                                   Jarius Wright
                                                   Amon-Ra St. Brown

Kyle Philips has a negative stat score in the Z-Prospect Model, but not by much.
He had ordinary tallies in best-season receptions per game and yards per team pass
attempt, but his 10-touchdown 2021 resulted in a 43.5% touchdown share. That’s
impressive for a sub-190 pound wide receiver. He also had some work as a returner,
which shows versatility.

Philips has the size of a prototypical slot guy in the NFL, and he played almost
93% of his snaps from that area of the field last year according to Pro Football
Focus. The truest film grinders seem to really like his footwork.

So there could be something here. His production isn’t bad, and he could have a
specific role at the next level where he can thrive. That’s something to always
look for in prospects who are looking like Day 3 picks.

I’m sure some will make the easy comparison of Philips to Hunter Renfrow, but
Philips’ production profile is much stronger than Renfrow’s was. Renfrow was
actually a bit of an anomaly, but that happens sometimes with slot receivers. The
production is why Philips’ top comp is Michael Campanaro, a shifty player who had
some moments in the NFL. Campanaro did test as a better athlete, though.

You’ll notice, too, that Amon-Ra St. Brown is on the comp list. St. Brown’s
essentially a better version of Philips, but there are enough similarities that
the comp deserved a shoutout.

To me, Philips has a chance to be a decent late-round rookie draft pick,
especially if he finds a home that lacks a true slot guy.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              87
Tre Turner
WR • Virginia Tech Hokies (Undrafted)

                      26.8%                                        -8.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            184

Statistical Comparables:                           Ihmir Smith-Marsette
                                                   Rodney Adams
                                                   Trevor Davis

We’ll see this with a lot of players under the 50th percentile mark in the Z-
Prospect Model: incredibly boring production.

Tre Turner’s best-season yards per team pass attempt rate was 2.14. Meh. His best-
season receptions per game rate was 4.0. Meh. His best-season touchdown share was
a little over 23%.

Meh.

Turner’s not an early-declare receiver, but his Breakout Age is better than most.
The likely outcome is that he’s a depth player at the NFL level. His comparables
say that, too.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             88
Dontario Drummond
WR • Mississippi Rebels (Undrafted)

                      18.2%                                          -16.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            215

Statistical Comparables:                           Mark Harrison
                                                   Gerell Robinson
                                                   Jeremy Ebert

There are things to like about Dontario Drummond when you see his profile. He has
really good size at 215 pounds, and none of his best-season production numbers are
below-average in the model.

So he should have a decent Z-Prospect score, right?

Well, not exactly. Remember, production isn’t everything. Drummond went the JUCO
route to start his college career, and then he played three years as sort of a big
slot wideout at Ole Miss, where he was only really productive during his final
season in 2021. That gave him a late Breakout Age, and he’s now entering the
league well over 24 years of age.

That age-adjusted production is a major red flag, and it’s the main reason his
statistical comparables are a bunch of wide receivers you’ve never heard of
before. He has good size, but he’ll have to be an outlier to be someone you use in
fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             89
Ty Fryfogle
WR • Indiana Hoosiers (Undrafted)

                     22.6%                                        -12.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            204

Statistical Comparables:                           Ryan Grant
                                                   Bud Sasser
                                                   Jester Weah

A below-average Breakout Age is pushing Ty Fryfogle down in the Z-Prospect Model,
but he at least has some redeeming production-related qualities. His best-season
yards per team pass attempt rate of 2.47 is better than more than half of this
year’s draft class, and his best-season touchdown share of 44% is quite good. His
last name is also Fryfogle, which gives him a bump within the model’s “fun last
name” metric.

(Please let me have some fun. I’m talking about prospects who may not even get
drafted here.)

Fryfogle does have good enough size, but we just haven’t seen many players with
his profile become productive through the years.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             90
Dai’Jean Dixon
WR • Nicholls State Colonels (Undrafted)

                      22.8%                                          -5.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            200

Statistical Comparables:                           KeeSean Johnson
                                                   Tony Lippett
                                                   Ryan Grant

Remember, smaller-school wide receivers get dinged in the Z-Prospect Model for
playing against subpar competition. That’s the case for Dai’Jean Dixon, who played
at Nicholls State, an FCS school in Louisiana.

Naturally, if a player like Dixon got an NFL Combine invite, he likely did a
little something in college. And he did. His best-season yards per team pass
attempt rate is north of 3.0, his best-season receptions per game is a solid 6.0,
and, last season, he scored over 47% of Nicholls State’s receiving touchdowns.

Those are all very strong numbers, but that’s to be expected at a lesser program.

Non-Power Five wide receivers who go on Day 3 don’t typically have good hit rates,
but at least the list of similar players has recognizable names. Overall, Dixon’s
a guy you throw a dart at in the fifth round of your rookie draft if he falls to a
decent team.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             91
Bo Melton
WR • Rutgers Scarlet Knights (Seattle Seahawks)

                     45.2%                                        +3.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             189

Statistical Comparables:                           Mario Alford
                                                   Shi Smith
                                                   Kenny Stills

Within the Z-Prospect Model, there’s not a whole lot going on with Rutgers’
wideout Bo Melton.

Melton has a decent Breakout Age, but he didn’t show off a whole lot of production
during his five — yes, five — seasons at Rutgers. His best-season yards per team
pass attempt rate landed at 2.02, a below-average mark in the class, and his
single-season high in receiving yards was just 638. He did at least have a really
high best-season touchdown share of almost 43%, which counts for something.

As you know by now, athleticism scores aren’t in the wide receiver model. That
doesn’t mean we should, like, go after slower wide receivers. It’s just that other
things are more important.

Melton, for the record, is not slow. He ran a 4.34 40-yard dash at the NFL
Combine, putting him close to the top of this speedy wide receiver class. At least
he has that going for him.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              92
Charleston Rambo
WR • Miami Hurricanes (Undrafted)

                     21.7%                                        -13.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            177

Statistical Comparables:                           Tre Nixon
                                                   Alex Wesley
                                                   Tevin Reese

Charleston Rambo has a positive stat score in the Z-Prospect Model thanks to good
best-season receptions per game and yards per team pass attempt rates. Where he
lacks is Breakout Age, with his best season in college coming during his first and
final season at Miami. He had played three years at Oklahoma before moving over to
the ACC, and as a Sooner, he wasn’t all that productive.

Rambo weighs just 177 pounds at 6’1’’, giving him the second-lowest BMI in the
class, ahead of only Tyquan Thornton. The difference is that Thornton ran a 4.28
40-yard dash at the NFL Combine, whereas Rambo was at 4.57.

There really aren’t many redeeming qualities to Rambo’s profile.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             93
Reggie Roberson Jr.
WR • Southern Methodist Mustangs (Undrafted)

                      4.0%                                           -31.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             192

Statistical Comparables:                           Kolby Listenbee
                                                   Trevor Davis
                                                   Keith Mumphery

Look, we’re talking sub-25th percentile prospects here. There’s not much to get
excited about.

Reggie Roberson Jr. at least has a Breakout Age. He did technically break out. But
there are no positive production qualities to his profile, and he’s been legally
able to go to bars in Texas for like three and a half years.

He didn’t run the 40, but Roberson is fast. There’s fortunately an attribute we
can get focus on with him. The issue is that the Z-Prospect Model doesn’t care
much for speed at wide receiver. That’s why Roberson is a near lock to have a
negative Draft Capital Delta, since some team will probably buy into that speed.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              94
Danny Gray
WR • Southern Methodist Mustangs (San Francisco 49ers)

                     42.2%                                                -29.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                                   Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                  6’0”

Weight:                                                                                  186

Statistical Comparables:                                 TJ Graham
                                                         Keshawn Martin
                                                         Trevor Davis

Update: The 49ers clearly wanted some speed, so they selected Danny Gray with the
final pick in the third round of this year’s draft.

It’s not doing a whole lot for the model.

Gray is fast! He ran a 4.33 at the NFL Combine, giving him a weight- and height-
adjusted 40-yard dash time that ranks in the 94th percentile in the model. That’s
the reason he was elevated to Round 3 of the NFL Draft.

It certainly wasn’t his college production, at least.

Within this class (40 wide receivers who were at the NFL Combine), Gray ranked
22nd in best-season receptions per game, 34th in best-season receiving yards per
team pass attempt, and 33rd in best-season touchdown share. The 49ers are likely
going to be a run-heavy team in the immediate future, and they’ve got established
weapons in the offense, making it harder for Gray to climb the depth chart. He
could make some splash plays for them, but it’s hard to envision a 41st percentile
wide receiver in this situation blowing up in fantasy.

He at least has an attribute — his speed — to buy into. Maybe that’s enough for a
late-round dart throw in your rookie draft. Just don’t have unrealistic
expectations.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                   95
Slade Bolden
WR • Alabama Crimson Tide (Undrafted)

                      1.2%                                        -33.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             193

Statistical Comparables:                           Quadree Henderson
                                                   George Farmer
                                                   Juwann Winfree

Slade Bolden went to Alabama.

That’s the best I can do for you.

Bolden’s best-season numbers in the three production statistics are as follows:
2.8 receptions per game, a yards per team pass attempt rate of 0.71, and a
touchdown share of 6.3%.

He then went out and tested like an accountant at the NFL Combine.

I’m sure Slade is a good dude. And maybe he gets reunited with Mac Jones in New
England and they make some low-probability magic happen.

It’s just highly unlikely. The Z-Prospect Model has seen just a handful of players
with a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate below 1.0. None of them have
come close to a double-digit PPR point per game season across their first three in
the league. It’s just very difficult to be into a player with such a poor
production profile, even if he went to Alabama.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              96
Makai Polk
WR • Mississippi State Bulldogs (Undrafted)

                      37.3%                                           +2.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            195

Statistical Comparables:                           Geronimo Allison
                                                   DeMarkus Lodge
                                                   Tavares Martin

There’s very little buzz surrounding Makai Polk, but he’s an interesting prospect.
He transferred to Mississippi State after two years at Cal, and in 2021, he led
the entire SEC in receptions.

Before you think he’s an obvious steal, a large reason for that was because Mike
Leach’s Bulldogs led all of college football in pass attempts. Polk also saw a ton
of screens, ranking top-10 in the country in receptions on screens according to
Pro Football Focus. He wasn’t very effective per catch, leading to a poor
receiving yards per team pass attempt rate of only 1.49.

But, hey, Polk’s an early-declare wideout with not terrible age-adjusted
production. He’s probably not going to get the right draft capital to warrant any
sort of high rookie pick, but he’s someone to keep an eye on given his early-
declare status.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             97
Tyquan Thornton
WR • Baylor Bears (New England Patriots)

                     77.8%                                          -8.4
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            181

Statistical Comparables:                           JJ Nelson
                                                   Titus Young
                                                   Rodney Adams

Update: Tyquan Thornton ranked really low in the Z-Prospect Model pre-draft, but
that was largely because he was expected to go past Pick 200. The Patriots changed
that when they took him 50th overall.

He didn’t quite get to the 80th percentile that we all should be looking for with
these wide receivers, but his profile is interesting. New England really needed
speed, and they got it with Thornton, who ran a sub-4.3 40-yard dash at the NFL
Combine. He also had a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate of 2.60 to go
along with a touchdown share north of 40%. He’s one of eight wide receivers in
this class to get to those two marks.

He may not get a ton of playing time right away just given the veterans on the New
England roster, but it’s a climbable depth chart. The Z-Prospect Model isn’t in
love, hence the low Draft Capital Delta, but the market may not be all that
interested in Thornton, either. Don’t rule him out in rookie drafts — a 77th
percentile score isn’t a total death sentence.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             98
Jalen Nailor
WR • Michigan State Spartans (Minnesota Vikings)

                     52.7%                                           +2.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             186

Statistical Comparables:                           Conner Vernon
                                                   Travis Rudolph
                                                   Deontay Burnett

Jalen Nailor’s best-season yards per team pass attempt rate came during his Junior
season in 2020, where he averaged 2.13 yards per attempt. That’s under the average
in the Z-Prospect database, and since 2010, only seven wideouts in the dataset who
were drafted after Pick 100 hit 10 or more PPR points per game in Years 1, 2, or 3
with that low of a mark.

That’s just to say that Nailor has a 23rd percentile prospect score for a reason.
He didn’t test as some exceptional athlete, and his comps reflect an overall
uninspiring profile.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              99
Johnny Johnson III
WR • Oregon Ducks (Undrafted)

                      11.6%                                          -15.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            197

Statistical Comparables:                           Deondre Douglas
                                                   James Quick
                                                   Terry Godwin

Once again, we’re greeted with a wide receiver who isn’t giving us a whole lot on
the production front. Across five seasons at Oregon, Johnny Johnson hit 400 yards
receiving just once, maxing out at 1.88 in best-season yards per team pass
attempt.

He didn’t do anything to help himself at the NFL Combine, either, with every
pertinent workout metric ranking lower than the 30th percentile.

For now, I’ll pass.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            100
Braylon Sanders
WR • Mississippi Rebels (Undrafted)

                      0.9%                                           -34.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            194

Statistical Comparables:                           Braxton Miller
                                                   Kolby Listenbee
                                                   Speedy Noll

Some of the low-production, lower-tiered wideouts also didn’t test well at the NFL
Combine. Sanders at least was a little above average, and he walked away with a
sub-4.5 40-yard dash.

The spreadsheets definitely aren’t into him. He has a composite stat score in the
Z-Prospect Model of -1.71, which makes no sense to you, but it ranks in the 3rd
percentile.

No thanks.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            101
Josh Johnson
WR • Tulsa Golden Hurricane (Undrafted)

                     20.0%                                           -15.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             183

Statistical Comparables:                           Gabe Marks
                                                   Dominic Rufran
                                                   Patrick Edwards

Just so everyone’s aware, when a player goes undrafted, he automatically gets a
bad score in the Z-Prospect Model. It may seem unfair, but remember, we see loads
and loads of undrafted players each year. Only a few — if that — will be remotely
relevant in a given season.

Josh Johnson is not projected to get drafted, but his production profile is
actually better than most in this range. He played at a smaller program, but he
had a best-season receptions per game of 6.3, a best-season yards per team pass
attempt of 2.66, and a best-season touchdown share of 40%.

Unless he gets drafted, he’s not someone you’ll likely need to worry about in your
rookie drafts. An add if he finds the right team? Maybe.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             102
Velus Jones Jr.
WR • Tennessee Volunteers (Chicago Bears)

                     61.4%                                            -18.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            204

Statistical Comparables:                           Racey McMath
                                                   Robert Foster
                                                   Marquise Goodwin

Update: Straight up, the most egregious wide receiver pick in the 2022 NFL Draft
was Chicago taking Velus Jones with the 71st overall selection.

Jones has good size and speed, and he can play special teams. He’ll also be used,
at least, as a gadget player. But 71st overall? In this economy?

Analytically, Jones checks very few boxes. He’s certainly not an early-declare
receiver after playing six seasons of college ball. His production was so poor
that he never really broke out, too.

The man is also going to be 25 years old in May. He’s actually older than his new
teammate, Darnell Mooney.

When filtering out all wide receivers drafted in the top-100 in the Z-Prospect
Model since 2011, Jones’ 61st percentile score is the fourth worst. His most
realistic best-case scenario is a Marquise Goodwin-type career in the NFL, though
an outlier outcome could be Terry McLaurin.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            103
Isaiah Weston
WR • Northern Iowa Panthers (Undrafted)

                      6.3%                                         -28.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            214

Statistical Comparables:                           Jazz Ferguson
                                                   Allen Lazard
                                                   Robert Davis

When you get this far down the prospect list — when you’re looking at players who
have a very small shot to make it big in the NFL — it’s important to just simply
find interesting profiles. And Isaiah Weston at least has that.

He’s a Northern Iowa Panther, so he wasn’t facing stiff competition throughout
college. You’d like to see a smaller-school wideout have better than a best-season
yards per team pass attempt of 2.56, but that could be worse.

Weston at least has an impressive size-speed combination. He’s 6’4’’, 214 pounds,
and he ran a 4.42 40-yard dash at the NFL Combine. That gives him a height-
adjusted Speed Score in about the 97th percentile.

Maybe that’ll work in the NFL?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            104
Kevin Austin
WR • Notre Dame Fighting Irish (Undrafted)

                      14.0%                                        -21.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            200

Statistical Comparables:                           Emanuel Hall
                                                   Chris Lacy
                                                   Toney Clemons

After Kevin Austin’s NFL Combine, we may see him with better draft capital than
what’s currently being projected. If that’s the case, he’ll have a higher Z-
Prospect Score post-draft.

Austin came in at 6’2’’, 200 pounds, and he ran a 4.43 40. That’s a really good
number for a player that size.

The problem, of course, is that Austin wasn’t productive at Notre Dame. He led the
Fighting Irish in receiving yards this past year (not by much), and his best-
season yards per team pass attempt rate is below 2.0.

Perhaps Austin’s athleticism helps him out in the NFL, similar to what we saw with
Chase Claypool out of this same program. The difference is that Claypool was far
better of a prospect across the board. He was more athletic, too.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            105
Mike Woods
WR • Oklahoma Sooners (Cleveland Browns)

                     13.7%                                        -34.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            215

Statistical Comparables:                           Marquez Callaway
                                                   Emmanuel Butler
                                                   JJ Worton

It would be a surprise if Mike Woods gave you a lot of fantasy football
production. During college, where he played at both Arkansas and Oklahoma, his
best-season yards per team pass attempt rate was 2.18, and he never scored 30% of
his team’s receiving touchdowns in a single season.

Players with those types of numbers just generally don’t pan out unless they’ve
got some sort of special trait, but it doesn’t look like it’s there for Woods. At
least football-wise — maybe he’s a good singer or something, I don’t know.

He’s projected to go undrafted, and this Z-Prospect Model score reflects that.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            106
Devon Williams
WR • Oregon Ducks (Undrafted)

                      0.4%                                           -34.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’5”

Weight:                                                                            210

Statistical Comparables:                           Mekale McKay
                                                   Trevon Grimes
                                                   Kendrick Rogers

You’ll be shocked to hear this, but there have not been any hits in the Z-Prospect
Model at wide receiver among pass-catchers ranking in the 1st percentile.

The Z-Prospect Model does not like Devon Williams much at all pre-draft. He’s got
a seriously low stat score. In fact, we’ve only seen three wide receivers over the
last decade hit nine-plus PPR points per game in one of their first three years
with Williams’ score (or worse).

With that being said, Williams does have good size that may interest a team or
two. So let’s wait until the draft is over before we say he’s an automatic avoid.

(He’s an avoid.)




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            107
The Year 2 Model
Overview
A couple of years ago, I did a Late-Round Fantasy Football Podcast
episode called “Bailing on Unproductive Rookies.”

That show set to answer the following question: How much does a
player’s rookie-season production matter?
                                                                                   Unproductive
                                                                                 Rookies Episode
The answer: more than you probably think.
                                                                                        The episode I did about bailing on
                                                                              unproductive rookies was the main reason I
It’s pretty rare for elite fantasy assets at wide receiver and running back     had N’Keal Harry as a sell after his rookie
                                                                               year. You’ll win those trades far more often
to have done next to nothing during their rst year in the league. Just                                than you’ll lose them.
take a look at today’s landscape — pretty much every great player in
fantasy football was at least decent during his rookie year.

That alone told me that rookie-season production was probably good at
predicting future production.

Thus, the Year 2 Model was born...

…a couple of years after producing that podcast episode.

For whatever reason, it took me a couple of years after that episode
dropped to build a working post-rookie season model.

But it’s a thing now. Don’t worry. (I know you were really worried.)




        The goal of the Year 2 Model is to be much better
        than a player’s rookie-season points per game at
        predicting his second- and third-year production.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                           108


                               fi
Like I just said, how a player performs during his initial year in the league
is pretty telling. The dynasty world is going to like a player a whole lot
more when he does well in fantasy football as a rookie.

What if you knew when to buy and sell those players?

The Year 2 Model — both at running back and wide receiver —
incorporates a player’s prospect score, some rookie-season production
inputs, and his rookie-season points per game average to get a Year 2
score. That’s the gist of it.

Everything in the Year 2 Model ties back to a player’s max-season PPR
points per game during his second or third season. So if a player scored
16 and 19 points per game during his second and third season,
respectively, the model only cares about that 19 points per game mark.

As you’d guess, the Year 2 Model is a lot better at predicting a player’s
best points per game season in Year 2 or Year 3 compared to his rookie-
season points per game average alone.

To me, this all is logical.



        If a player came from nowhere — if a guy
        wasn’t supposed to be good, but he balled out
        during his rookie year — then there’s more risk
        with that player than if an early-round pick did the
        exact same thing.
There’s more risk with Elijah Mitchell going into 2022 than there is with
Javonte Williams.

The Year 2 Model can help us out when higher draft selections
underperform, too. Is Terrace Marshall, a second-round pick last year,
doomed? What about Rondale Moore, who was OK but not great?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        109
Similar to the Z-Prospect Model, there are easy-to-understand
probability charts for the Year 2 Model.




The Year 2 Model is straight up more predictive than the Z-Prospect
Model. That shouldn’t be much of a surprise considering we’re working
with actual NFL data, and we’ve gotten some sample of a player as a
professional.

The wide receiver table above clearly shows that. Of the wide receivers
since 2011 with three-plus seasons in the league who ranked in the 95th
to 100th percentile in Year 2 score, every single one gave us a PPR
points per game season of 12 or more in either Year 2 or Year 3. A
shocking 59% of them hit 18 or more PPR points, which would’ve
ranked in the top-5 in 2021.

That’s kind of crazy, isn’t it?



        Historically, a player in the elite percentile group
        has had better than 50-50 odds to give you a top-5
        season in PPR points per game during either Year
        2 or Year 3.
As you move from group to group, the hit rates predictably change. Wide
receivers in the 70th to 75th percentile tier almost always fail to give you




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       110
     a double-digit PPR season in Year 2 or Year 3. Under that 70th
     percentile mark? Good luck.

     It looks pretty strong at running back, too.




     Over half of the 95th to 100th percentile running backs in the Year 2
     Model since 2011 have produced a top-5 season in Year 2 or Year 3,
      nishing with 20 or more PPR points. There’s some sample size noise
     happening in the 80th to 85th percentile group, but like the wide
     receiver table, things do generally get worse and worse with each tier
     drop.

     The high-end running back numbers are undeniable. Betting on a 90th
     percentile or better running back seems like a good call. Below that,
     there’s a ton of risk.


     Journey Comparables
     When you get a new shirt from a clothing brand that you’ve never bought
     from before, it’s a gamble. You have no clue if it’s going to t right. It’s a
     completely di erent experience than if you buy from a place you
     typically purchase from.

     There may or may not be a point to this analogy. We’ll see how this goes.

     It’s always easier to grasp a player’s ability when we can compare what
     he’s done to players we’ve seen in the past. That’s tougher to do for




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        111


                                                      fi
       ff
fi
     some players versus others — for some players, it’s like buying a shirt
     from a new clothing company. But having that type of context can really
                                                                                          Other Analogy
     aid us in our decision-making.
                                                                                           Possibilities
     (OK, that wasn’t a very good analogy.)                                           When writing this guide, I thought about
                                                                                   going with some sort of restaurant analogy
                                                                                  here instead of the clothing one. Either way,
     Enter Journey Comparables.                                                     it would’ve been a poor way to explain my
                                                                                           thoughts on Journey Comparables.
     You’ve probably already read about statistical comparables with the Z-
     Prospect Model pro les earlier. Journey Comparables are a little
     di erent. Rather than looking at a player’s attributes as he enters the
     league, Journey Comparables inspect a player’s Z-Prospect Model score
     along with his Year 2 Model score. It then looks at players in history who
     have gone through a similar path — a similar journey — from before
     Year 1 to before Year 2.

     Journey Comparables don’t deal with play style, height, weight, or any
     other qualities. It’s simply a look at players in history who entered the
     league as a similarly graded prospect who then went into their second
     season with a comparable Year 2 Model score as well.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                          112


             fi
ff
     2022 Year 2 Model Pro les
     Overview
     If you were one of the fortunate ones who drafted Elijah Mitchell in your
     dynasty rookie draft last year, is now the time to trade him away? Is
     Kadarius Toney bound to blow up during his second — and hopefully
     healthier — season in the league? Are there any players from last year’s
     draft class who are totally ying under the radar?

     These Year 2 Model pro les can help answer those questions.

     Over the nal section of this guide, you’ll read about all relevant wide
     receivers and running backs from last year’s draft class.



            You’ll see where the Year 2 Model has them
            ranked, and you’ll get insight on how to manage
            each player moving forward.
     You’ll also learn about my biggest miss from last year’s class.

     Who doesn’t want to see a fantasy football analyst get buried?




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    113


                                          fi
                      fl
                 fi
fi
Key Terms
Z-Prospect Score: The score — often in percentile form — given to an
incoming rookie in the Z-Prospect Model. It’s based on the factors
outlined in the Z-Prospect Overview section of this guide.

B2S: The Z-Prospect Model attempts to predict how well a player will do
in fantasy football across his rst three years in the league. In doing this,
it tests against the average of a player’s top-two seasons in PPR points
per game during his rst three years as a pro. This is referred to as B2S
(Best Two Seasons).

Draft Capital Delta: The percentile di erence between a player’s Z-
Prospect score versus where he was drafted in the actual NFL Draft.
Anything under 0 means the player was overdrafted, and anything over 0
means the player was underdrafted.

Journey Comparables: Players in history who have had similar Z-
Prospect Model and Year 2 Model scores.

Expected Max PPR PPG Season: The estimated outcome in best-season
PPR points per game in Year 2 or Year 3 for a particular player. This is
simply a median, so the number is likely smaller than expected.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       114


                           ff
                  fi
         fi
Running Back


Najee Harris
RB • Pittsburgh Steelers


                      97.8%                                        98.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       20.8

Journey Comparables:                               Ezekiel Elliott
                                                   Leonard Fournette
                                                   Christian McCaffrey

Najee Harris exited the 2021 NFL Draft with the best Z-Prospect score among all
running backs in the class, ranking near the 98th percentile. His total was
boosted by an encouraging 13.3% best-season reception share and a best-season
total yards per team play rate of 2.10, third-best among his colleagues.

He went one pick ahead of Travis Etienne, and that’s what really gave him the edge
over Etienne in prospect score. Unlike Etienne, we saw a whole lot of production
from Harris in Year 1. After capturing over 85% of Pittsburgh’s running back rush
attempts and running for 1,200 yards, Harris actually looks better in the Year 2
Model than he did in the Z-Prospect one.

Ranking close to the 99th percentile in the Year 2 Model means that he’s got
better than 50-50 odds to give us a top-five season over the next two years.
That’s why you see his expected top season over the next two years sitting at 20.8
PPR points per game.

Given all of this, it’s easy to understand why his top Journey Comparables are
Ezekiel Elliott, Leonard Fournette, and Christian McCaffrey. Elliott in particular
seems like the right type of player to think about when figuring out Harris’ next
handful of seasons.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           115
Javonte Williams
RB • Denver Broncos


                      95.4%                                        94.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       15.1

Journey Comparables:                               Dalvin Cook
                                                   Josh Jacobs
                                                   Clyde Edwards-Helaire

Before the draft last year, the Z-Prospect Model liked Javonte Williams more than
any other running back in the 2021 class. That changed when Najee Harris and
Travis Etienne snagged first-round draft capital, but Williams still scored close
to them in the 95th percentile. It’s not like he was out of their league.

His rookie season was slightly disappointing as he shared a backfield with Melvin
Gordon, but it’s hard to be upset about 200-plus rush attempts and 50-plus targets
from your freshman back. We saw him go beast mode as the main runner against
Kansas City in Week 13, giving us a glimpse of what the future could look like if
he’s able to get the backfield to himself.

There’s a slight drop when looking at Williams’ Z-Prospect score to his Year 2
score, but the good news is that his Journey Comparables are pretty strong. His
top one, Dalvin Cook, was also a second-rounder who saw a minor dip in percentile
ranking from Year 1 to Year 2. Cook didn’t really get going until Year 3 thanks to
injury, so let’s cross our fingers and hope that Williams can stay healthy and
give us a great second season.

He’s someone you’d absolutely want on your dynasty roster. While he misses the
cutoff of being in the 95th percentile in the Year 2 Model, players of his caliber
still have strong hit rates.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           116
Michael Carter
RB • New York Jets


                     77.4%                                            89.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       12.5

Journey Comparables:                               Devin Singletary
                                                   Devontae Booker
                                                   Jeremy Langford

You may recall, but with the Z-Prospect Model, we often see a big decrease in hit
rate when a player drops below the 80th percentile. Then, with the Year 2 Model,
that dip occurs at the 90th percentile.

Michael Carter is oh-so-close to both of those thresholds.

Don’t worry, Carter truthers: those limits are a little arbitrary. It just
would’ve been nice and clean had Carter been slightly better in college and
slightly better as a rookie.

He had an underrated rookie year, though. Carter hit a 9.5% target share in 14
games, meaning he would’ve definitely been in the double-digit percentage range
had he been healthy all year. And there’s certainly nothing wrong with averaging
over 11 PPR points per game as a first-year back.

The model really hasn’t seen a running back quite like Carter before. His top
comparable of Devin Singletary went through a relatively similar voyage —
Singletary was an 81st percentile prospect who jumped to the 91st percentile in
Year 2 score — and it’s interesting that the two players have such similar builds
as smaller backs. Remember, these Journey Comparables only care about model
scores, not their actual profiles.

It's tough to see Carter as some full-fledged RB1 in fantasy football, but with a
solid Year 2 Model percentile ranking and a decent top comparable, you can feel
good about Carter at least being semi-productive moving forward. An RB2 ceiling
makes sense.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           117
Elijah Mitchell
RB • San Francisco 49ers


                     55.4%                                           86.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       11.3

Journey Comparables:                               Zac Stacy
                                                   Andre Ellington
                                                   James Robinson

Elijah Mitchell wasn’t even the first running back selected by the San Francisco
49ers in 2021 (Hey, Trey!), but he sure was the most productive back on the team
last season. Mitchell entered the league with a Z-Prospect score that ranked in
the 55th percentile. That’s not great, but he had a positive Draft Capital Delta.

Najee Harris was the only rookie back to average more points per game (17.7) than
Mitchell (15.0) last year. That’s it. And Najee, as we know, was a first-round
pick. Mitchell wasn’t selected until the sixth.

And there’s the problem. Should you weigh rookie-season production most? Or should
you be paying more attention to a player’s prospect score?

Mitchell saw a substantial jump in percentile ranking after his awesome rookie
campaign. It was one of the 10 largest shifts by a back over the last 10 years.

The downside for Mitchell is that we’ve sort of seen this story before. In 2013,
Zac Stacy, a fifth-round selection, finished the season with 13.1 PPR points per
game. That same season, sixth-rounder Andre Ellington averaged 11. James Robinson
went nuts in 2020 after being undrafted, and he watched his team draft a running
back in the first round the very next offseason.

I wouldn’t fault anyone for holding Mitchell after acquiring him for next to
nothing last year. He’s a fun player. He’s a talented player. And he works well in
the Shanahan offense.

There’s just fragility to these situations. The truth is, 8 times out of 10, when
you sell a running back like this, you’ll profit. That’s evident when you see that
he’s in a percentile tier where just 14% of the players since 2011 have given you
an RB1 season.

He can be an RB2, but odds aren’t in his favor to be a foundational dynasty piece.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           118
Kenneth Gainwell
RB • Philadelphia Eagles

                      70.9%                                         84.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.3

Journey Comparables:                               Javorius Allen
                                                   Marlon Mack
                                                   Tony Pollard

It was easy to fall in love with Kenneth Gainwell during the draft process last
year. Like a lot of recent Memphis running backs, Gainwell had a best-season
reception share of over 18% in college, a mark hit by fewer than 25 running backs
in the Z-Prospect Model database since 2011. Since the Z-Prospect Model digs
receiving numbers, Gainwell had a Draft Capital Delta of 5.8%, ranking behind only
Kylin Hill and Khalil Herbert in last year’s class within the statistic.

He didn’t go nuts as a rookie, but a 10.8% target share is nothing to ignore. His
volume through the air is what boosted his Year 2 Model score to the 84th
percentile, giving him a comparable Year 2 and Year 3 hit rate to Elijah Mitchell.

Mitchell undoubtedly has the higher ceiling — he’s also got the higher expected
outcome over the next two seasons, to be clear — but Gainwell isn’t nearly as
costly and has a shot to carve out a consistent receiving role in the Philly
offense. He’s one of my favorite buys this offseason.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           119
Chuba Hubbard
RB • Carolina Panthers

                         74.1%                                       82.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.9

Journey Comparables:                               Jeremy Langford
                                                   Kenneth Dixon
                                                   Andre Williams

Most of us know the Chuba Hubbard story by now. He had a Sophomore season at
Oklahoma State to remember, rushing for over 2,000 yards while finishing the
season with a total yards per team play rate of 2.48. That was the highest best-
season mark within that statistic among all backs in the 2021 draft class.

His final collegiate season didn’t go nearly as well. He played fewer games, but
every single rate stat plummeted. That led to him being picked on Day 3 of last
year’s draft.

And let’s be real: Hubbard wouldn’t have been a success in Year 1 had Christian
McCaffrey stayed healthy. He would’ve seen some work here and there each game, but
CMC had that backfield on lock. The injury allowed Hubbard to emerge, where he
was…completely uninspiring. Among the 29 running backs with 150 or more rushes
last season, Hubbard was fifth-worst at gaining positive yardage, and he was the
absolute worst at gaining two or more yards per carry.

His Journey Comparables are interesting because they feature players who got some
run during their first year in the league before flaming out. His top one, Jeremy
Langford, carried the ball 148 times as a rookie, filling in for injured stud back
in Matt Forte.

Sound familiar?

It’s hard to buy into Hubbard as a result of the mediocre effectiveness he showed
in Year 1 alongside weak comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           120
Rhamondre Stevenson
RB • New England Patriots

                     66.5%                                           79.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.1

Journey Comparables:                               Matt Jones
                                                   Jamaal Williams
                                                   Vick Ballard

The Z-Prospect Model wasn’t very kind to Rhamondre Stevenson last year because his
profile was pretty incomplete. He played junior college ball before transferring
to Oklahoma where he carried the rock just 165 times. That lack of volume was
largely due to a suspension for marijuana use, though.

When Stevenson was on the field, he posted good numbers. On a per-game basis, he
was seeing upwards of 15% of his offense’s receptions, something bigger-bodied
backs don’t typically see. That was the main reason I was cool with taking him in
rookie drafts last year.

We saw a nice leap from his lower-than-it-should’ve-been prospect score to his
Year 2 one. That’s because he was effective as a rookie. Of the 49 backs with 100
or more carries, Stevenson was 11th-best at gaining 2 or more yards per carry. He
was well above average at posting positive yardage per tote, too.

He’s one of those players where it’s just inherently more difficult to evaluate
through this model. Not only was his college journey a little unorthodox, but the
Patriots have historically deployed their running backs in unusual ways.

His Year 2 Model percentile places him in a bucket that has seen a couple of big
hits over the last decade. Devonta Freeman, for example, had a 78th percentile
Year 2 score before his breakout campaign in 2015. Stevenson didn’t hit the
elusive 90th percentile, but there are at least some reasons to be bullish about
him moving forward.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           121
Travis Etienne
RB • Jacksonville Jaguars

                     97.6%                                         70.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.9

Journey Comparables:                               David Wilson
                                                   Rashaad Penny
                                                   Mark Ingram

You’ve probably filed a missing person report for Travis Etienne by now, but don’t
worry, he’s here. He’s just a little lost.

My goal is to be an open book with all of this stuff. You shouldn’t listen to
analysts who just say, “Trust me! I know what I’m doing!”

You should want to know the why and the how.

The Year 2 Model has its flaws. One of them is that it can’t tell if little or no
production from a first-year player came as the result of injury or just poor
play. For Etienne, clearly, it’s the former. He missed his entire rookie season
thanks to a Lisfranc injury.

These models are guides, not absolutes. And Etienne — and to some degree,
Rhamondre Stevenson above — is a great example of that.

With that being said, his comparables aren’t all that bad. They’re highly-touted
prospects who just couldn’t get going at the start of their careers. In David
Wilson’s case, he unfortunately was never able to get going because of a neck
injury that ended his career.

The fact that Etienne was a 97th to 98th percentile prospect should give us a lot
of hope. Prospects in that range give us an RB1 season across their first three
years more often than not.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           122
Khalil Herbert
RB • Chicago Bears

                     55.7%                                         63.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.9

Journey Comparables:                               Myles Gaskin
                                                   Chase Edmonds
                                                   Ty Johnson

Was Khalil Herbert’s Z-Prospect score really good? No, but it’s impossible for it
to be close to elite with sixth-round draft capital.

As I alluded to earlier, Herbert’s profile was actually not bad — he was second-
best in his class in Draft Capital Delta. The model was into him way more than the
NFL seemingly was.

Herbert had a similar-ish rookie-season adventure as Chuba Hubbard, where he
stepped in for a starter and, at times, carried a big workload. The difference
between Hubbard and Herbert is that Herbert was effective. Not only did the
majority of his efficiency numbers look better than starter David Montgomery’s
last year, but among the 49 backs with 100-plus carries in 2021, Herbert was 7th
in percentage of attempts that went 20 or more yards. He showed off some
explosiveness.

Take a look at his Journey Comparables, too. They’re not all built the same — they
don’t all score points the same way — but they’ve been able to carve out roles
after being Day 3 picks in their respective NFL Drafts. That has to count for
something.

Herbert can be had for next to nothing in dynasty right now. He seems like someone
who’s worth throwing a dart at.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           123
Trey Sermon
RB • San Francisco 49ers

                     79.3%                                         63.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.8

Journey Comparables:                               Darrynton Evans
                                                   Lamar Miller
                                                   Christine Michael

Rounding out the top-10 is everyone’s favorite middle-round pick from 2021 season-
long leagues: Trey Sermon.

Sermon lacked production in college and therefore didn’t pop in the Z-Prospect
Model. Did he have the right size? Sure. Did he have good draft capital? It was
decent. Did he fall to an excellent spot? Most definitely.

The production just was not there.

This will read as a hindsight take, I get it, but it’s not surprising to see a
player like Sermon fail as a rookie. It doesn’t mean he wasn’t the right kind of
bet in season-long formats, but he was a high-variance one. And that variance hit
on the wrong side.

A Year 2 Model score in the 63rd percentile means that we’re looking at about a
25% chance that Sermon’s going to be an RB3 in fantasy football in 2022 or 2023.
Roughly 70% of the backs in this tier fail to produce a single season in Year 2 or
Year 3 of 10 or more PPR points.

I don’t like Sermon’s odds of bouncing back. At the absolute least, history tells
us that there’s very little chance he becomes anything more than an RB2.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           124
Wide Receiver


Ja’Marr Chase
WR • Cincinnati Bengals

                     99.6%                                        99.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       21.5

Journey Comparables:                               Julio Jones
                                                   Mike Evans
                                                   Amari Cooper

Do I even have to tell you that Ja’Marr Chase is a wide receiver deity?

Chase entered the league as a near-perfect prospect in the Z-Prospect Model. He
then somehow increased his percentile rating after a rookie campaign that saw him
average 17.9 PPR points per game.

On the comparables front, he was with elite company entering the league, and
that’s still true. His top Journey Comparable is Julio Jones, who came into the
NFL as a 99th percentile prospect and stayed that way after his first year in the
league.

The difference? Chase is even a little better than that on paper. As it stands,
he, to me, is the top player in single-quarterback dynasty formats.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           125
Jaylen Waddle
WR • Miami Dolphins

                      96.3%                                           98.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       17.7

Journey Comparables:                               Justin Jefferson
                                                   Brandin Cooks
                                                   Calvin Ridley

Like I talked through earlier, Jaylen Waddle was a case where it was logical to
add some subjectivity to his evaluation. His college production profile was
lacking for an early first-round pick, but there was also plenty of reason for it.

Because of that, his Z-Prospect score was lower than it should have been.
Objectively. And we saw why during his rookie season after he caught 104 freaking
passes.

His leap from being an incredibly good prospect to being an absolutely elite
wideout entering Year 2 isn’t totally normal. Just a year ago, we watched Justin
Jefferson go from a 95th percentile receiver all the way to a 99th percentile one.
Brandin Cooks, meanwhile, went from the 95th percentile to the 98th.

Waddle is somewhere between the two of them when looking at Journey Comparables.

Putting that bluntly: Jaylen Waddle is a star.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           126
Devonta Smith
WR • Philadelphia Eagles

                     98.9%                                         98.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       16.5

Journey Comparables:                               Sammy Watkins
                                                   DJ Moore
                                                   Jerry Jeudy

It feels like Devonta Smith’s rookie season has gone a little unnoticed, doesn’t
it? There was an extra game for players in the regular season this past year, but
even still, Smith became one of 28 rookie wide receivers since the merger to hit
60 receptions, 900 yards, and 5 touchdowns. He didn’t go nuts, but he was the
opposite of bad.

Looking strictly at the models, the only problem for Smith is that he got worse
year over year. He came into the league with almost a 99th percentile prospect
score, and that dropped to the 98th percentile in his Year 2 tally.

It’s tough to find players who followed an identical path, but all three Journey
Comparables saw something similar happen. They each entered the NFL with a Z-
Prospect score in at least the 97th percentile, and they watched it dip after
their rookie performance. They’re still relatively good comps, but they’re nowhere
close to what we’re getting with Chase and Waddle.

Do keep in mind that wide receivers in the 95th to 100th percentile in the Year 2
Model have very good hit rates. I mean, very good. We’ve got 17 wide receivers in
this tier since 2011, and of those 17 pass-catchers, all have given you at least
one season in either Year 2 or Year 3 with 12 or more PPR points per game. It
would be shocking if Devonta Smith just completely busts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           127
Elijah Moore
WR • New York Jets

                     95.6%                                           96.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       15.7

Journey Comparables:                               CeeDee Lamb
                                                   Jordan Matthews
                                                   Calvin Ridley

Things were a little bumpy at the start, but Elijah Moore’s rookie season was a
success. He wasn’t able to stay healthy down the stretch, but he averaged 12.6 PPR
points per game across the season. That number was 17.7 specifically after the
Jets’ Week 6 bye.

My only hesitation with Moore as a prospect had nothing to do with the Z-Prospect
Model. It was more utilization-focused. We didn’t have a large sample size of him
playing on the perimeter against press coverage, and if he was forced to the slot
in the NFL, it had a chance to limit his ceiling in fantasy football.

Fortunately, that question mark is long gone. According to Pro Football Focus,
Moore played just 28% of his snaps from the slot in 2021. He was productive on the
outside.

The sky’s the limit for Moore. Like the players above him on this Year 2 Model
rankings list, he’s got strong odds to become at least a WR2 in fantasy football
over the next two seasons. He’s someone I’d strongly consider trading for this
offseason.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           128
Rashod Bateman
WR • Baltimore Ravens

                     96.3%                                           94.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.4

Journey Comparables:                               Corey Coleman
                                                   Jerry Jeudy
                                                   DeAndre Hopkins

Rashod Bateman’s Journey Comparables are all over the place because his rookie
season was kind of all over the place.

He was beloved by the numbers-driven fantasy football community thanks to really
good college production numbers. If you look at the three that the Z-Prospect
Model analyzes, among all wide receivers in last year’s class, Bateman was eighth
in best-season receptions per game, fifth in best-season receiving yards per team
pass attempt, and 23rd in best-season touchdown share.

Bateman’s rookie-season production was a little sporadic. When he stepped onto the
field for the first time in Week 6, he immediately saw a 22% target share in
Baltimore’s offense. He consistently was in the high teens in target share for the
next few weeks, but down the stretch, he had a handful of duds.

A large part of me believes Baltimore should’ve done a little more to get a
healthy Bateman involved last year. There were games where he failed to reach a
50% snap rate.

But because of the up and down nature of his season — whether it was the injury or
the lack of production in spots — we’re looking at a wideout who doesn’t have the
same safe baseline he once had now that he’s in the 94th percentile of the Year 2
Model.

Historically, players in the 90th to 95th percentile tier don’t totally flop —
just 2 of 19 have failed to give fantasy managers a double-digit PPR points per
game season in Year 2 or Year 3 — but the ceiling isn’t nearly as attractive as it
is for a player in the tier one spot above.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           129
Amon-Ra St. Brown
WR • Detroit Lions

                     73.8%                                         91.4%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       12.1

Journey Comparables:                               TY Hilton
                                                   Stefon Diggs
                                                   Keke Coutee

Among hundreds of wide receivers since 2011 who’ve entered the league with at
least a 50th percentile prospect rating, only two made as big of a leap as Amon-Ra
St. Brown did when looking at Z-Prospect percentile to Year 2 percentile. The
first is Martavis Bryant, who dominated but had off-the-field issues. The second
is Terry McLaurin, who’s currently dominating.

St. Brown had a Draft Capital Delta of 3.4%, so the model thought he was
underdrafted last season.

It certainly didn’t predict this.

After a slow start, St. Brown took off, averaging 25.2 PPR points per game across
his final six games of the 2021 season.

That’s not a typo.

The Lions had suffered some injuries to key pass-catchers like D’Andre Swift and
TJ Hockenson, but 25 points per game doesn’t just happen. Something’s allowing
that to happen. And that “something” is typically talent.

It’s tough to find super strong Journey Comparables for St. Brown since his path
to relevancy was so bizarre, but his top-two comps are encouraging. TY Hilton
entered the league with a prospect score slightly above St. Brown’s, and he hit a
90th percentile Year 2 tally. Similarly, Stefon Diggs had a 77th percentile score
in the Z-Prospect Model (with a 14% Draft Capital Delta, I should add), and after
a decent first year, that jumped to the 89th percentile in the Year 2 Model.

If you have St. Brown on your dynasty roster, your first instinct may be to trade
him away. If you feel strongly about it, I won’t stop you. I just don’t think he’s
in a bad spot, and his Year 2 score generally agrees.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           130
Kadarius Toney
WR • New York Giants

                       91.3%                                        90.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       11.9

Journey Comparables:                               Alshon Jeffery
                                                   Marqise Lee
                                                   Henry Ruggs

Kadarius Toney was undoubtedly the most controversial wide receiver in last year’s
class. At least among fantasy football managers.

His statistical profile was nothing to write home about. He had no early-declare
status to go along with a best-season yards per team attempt rate that was well
below average.

But he hadn’t played a ton of wide receiver when he was drafted, so what did we
really expect on the production front? And no one could question his athleticism.
The man was and is electric with the ball in his hands.

We saw that on full display against the Cowboys in 2021. Toney — who ended up
going in the first round of the draft, boosting his Z-Prospect score — caught 10
of 13 targets for 189 yards against Dallas in Week 5.

Unfortunately, not a whole lot happened after that. He was plagued by injury
throughout his rookie season, and he wasn’t super productive on a per game basis
in fantasy.

So Toney was a high-variance prospect who essentially gave us a high-variance Year
1. That’s probably why his Journey Comparables seem so confused. He’s nothing like
Alshon Jeffery as a player, but Jeffery also had an iffy first year thanks to his
health, and he bounced back big time in his second season with over 1,400 yards.

But then there’s Marqise Lee, a second-round wideout who just could never get
things going in the NFL.

Toney’s approximate 91st percentile Year 2 score places him in a bucket where
buying before the 2022 season is logical. I’d only buy if I’m snagging him from
someone who just wasn’t a believer in the first place, though. There’s no reason
to pay a premium right now.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           131
Rondale Moore
WR • Arizona Cardinals

                     90.2%                                         89.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       11.4

Journey Comparables:                               Tyler Boyd
                                                   Robert Woods
                                                   Dorial Green-Beckham

It’s tough to find a better age-adjusted college production profile than Rondale
Moore’s. He was a monster as a Freshman at Purdue, tallying 114 catches for 1,258
yards back in 2018. He just couldn’t stay healthy during his next and final two
seasons in college, inviting a little more variation to his prospect profile.

The Z-Prospect Model — as you know from reading about it earlier — doesn’t care
that much about size. Sometimes that’s a good thing (Calvin Ridley, Marquise
Brown), but sometimes it’s not. Sometimes it likes, oh, I don’t know, Tutu Atwell
a little more than it should. (More on that in a second.)

Let’s just face the facts: Rondale Moore is small. He’s 5’7’’. As I noted in the
prospect profiles section earlier, the best hit since 2011 at wide receiver among
wideouts who have been 5’8’’ or shorter — so an inch taller than Moore — has
probably been Jamison Crowder.

You can easily argue that Moore is an outlier among these shorter dudes due to his
college production, but, straight up, it’s just tough for me, personally, to want
to push my chips to the center of the table for a receiver who’s that short. Had
he crushed his rookie year, maybe I’d feel differently.

But he didn’t.

Moore’s Journey Comparables aren’t all that bad, with Tyler Boyd and Robert Woods
popping up as top comparisons. Those players may have had similar Z-Prospect and
Year 2 scores as Moore, but they’re not Rondale Moore. They don’t have the same
size concerns.

As fun as Moore is as a player, and as much as I’d love to call him a buy, he’s
more of a hold at his Year 2 Model score.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           132
Nico Collins
WR • Houston Texans

                      74.1%                                         76.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.6

Journey Comparables:                               Tajae Sharpe
                                                   Michael Gallup
                                                   Tre’Quan Smith

Once you get past Rondale Moore within the 2021 wide receiver class, there’s a
Grand Canyon-sized gap to the next player, Nico Collins.

Collins entered the NFL with good size and a strong Breakout Age, but across the
three main production metrics in the Z-Prospect Model, he was pretty below
average. His draft capital helped get him to a 74th percentile prospect score, but
at wide receiver, that’s nothing special. Since 2011, no wide receiver under the
80th percentile has scored 16 or more PPR points in B2S. In the 80th to 85th
percentile range, that rate rises to 14%.

On a team with a pretty wide open depth chart, Collins wasn’t terrible as a
rookie. He averaged a target share per game of 13.2%, and he had a few 50-yard
performances. Really, that’s fine for a player with his profile.

The reason his rank rose from Year 1 to Year 2 is because most players in his
shoes don’t do much at all during their first season in the league. Collins at
least gave you something.

His Journey Comparables aren’t thrilling, but Michael Gallup could be worse. If
you want to hang onto that, feel free. Just know that Collins’ chances of becoming
anything more than a WR2 are minuscule.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           133
Terrace Marshall
WR • Carolina Panthers

                     86.3%                                            75.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.4

Journey Comparables:                               Devin Smith
                                                   James Washington
                                                   Bryan Edwards

The biggest mistake I made as a draft analyst in 2021 was with Terrace Marshall.

As you can see, Marshall had an 86th percentile mark in the Z-Prospect Model.
Being under the 95th percentile meant that his chances of being truly special
weren’t high. He had a shot to be quite good, but historically good? Not happening
with that score.

In my post-draft rankings, I placed Marshall fourth overall, ahead of Elijah Moore
and Rashod Bateman, who, as you’ve already seen, were actually in that 95th to
100th percentile tier.

Why? Why did I make this obvious mistake?

Well, this is where adding subjectivity can come back to bite you. To me, it was
all about upside. Marshall has typical alpha wide receiver size, and during his
Sophomore season at LSU, he was competing well with Ja’Marr Chase and Justin
Jefferson before getting hurt. Fast forward to the pandemic season, and he
dominated during the chunk of games that he was active for.

So, similar to Jaylen Waddle, Marshall had an unfinished production profile. And
given the success of Justin Jefferson and the projected success of Ja’Marr Chase,
it seemed reasonable to say, “Terrace Marshall’s got a whole lot of potential!”

The mistake didn’t stem from that logic, in my opinion. The mistake was valuing
Marshall’s upside more than Elijah Moore’s or Rashod Bateman’s. The mistake was
ignoring what the model was saying.

My re-commitment to the Z-Prospect Model in 2022 stems from this error. It was a
slip in process, and I paid. Because, today, Marshall is not in a good spot. After
a disappointing rookie year, his Journey Comparables are filled with
underachievers. He’s gone from someone I was touting to someone I’m likely selling
in just one season.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           134
D’Wayne Eskridge
WR • Seattle Seahawks

                     84.7%                                         75.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.1

Journey Comparables:                               Andy Isabella
                                                   Bryan Edwards
                                                   DJ Chark

The Z-Prospect Model didn’t mind D’Wayne Eskridge because he had an absurdly high
best-season receiving yards per team attempt rate of 4.92. The only player in my
database with a higher mark in the statistic was Jalen Robinette, who played in
the run-heavy Air Force offense. The Seahawks then went out and snagged Eskridge
in Round 2, giving him good draft capital.

Despite the high yards per team pass attempt mark, Eskridge had a negative Draft
Capital Delta. He was overdrafted. And he was overdrafted because of all the age-
related items the model looks at.

Eskridge entered the league at 24 years old after playing five years at Western
Michigan. I mean, just re-read that sentence. There are a lot of issues there. He
wasn’t an early-declare receiver. He was old. And he went to a smaller school.

Not great, Bob!

After a rookie campaign that saw him catch 10 passes for 64 yards, it’s hard to
imagine a scenario where Eskridge becomes an every-week starter for your dynasty
lineup.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           135
Josh Palmer
WR • Los Angeles Chargers

                     67.8%                                        73.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.7

Journey Comparables:                               TJ Graham
                                                   Marvin Jones
                                                   Trent Taylor

We’ve seen Josh Palmer rise up dynasty rankings over the last month or two, though
that’s likely to stop with Mike Williams re-signing with the Chargers.

Palmer got more run at the end of the 2021 season, averaging a target share per
game of almost 15% across his final five games. He gave us a pair of top-24
performances during that stretch, too.

It’s an obvious point to make, but a huge piece to the allure with Palmer is his
situation. He’s tied to one of the best young passers in football in Justin
Herbert.

A wide receiver still needs to be reliable in order to produce, even with a stud
quarterback. And that’s where the model questions things. Entering the league,
Palmer had a low 68th percentile Z-Prospect score, giving him a minimal chance to
become an important piece to the fantasy football world.

His score was so mediocre because his college production was mediocre. Actually,
it was worse than mediocre. Palmer had poor statistics in the three main Z-
Prospect production categories, finishing college with a best-season yards per
team attempt rate of 1.67. He wasn’t an early declare, and his Breakout Age was
nothing special.

From 2011 through 2019, there hasn’t been a single wide receiver from the Z-
Prospect Model that entered the league with a sub-75th percentile score to give us
one season of 16 or more PPR points per game across his first three years in the
league. That’s a mouthful, but it’s important. It shows us that even if you trade
Palmer away, chances are, you’re not trading away a stud.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           136
Dyami Brown
WR • Washington Commanders

                     83.4%                                         71.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.2

Journey Comparables:                               Cody Latimer
                                                   DeVier Posey
                                                   Leonte Carroo

The Z-Prospect Model didn’t mind Dyami Brown last offseason. He was a big-play
receiver in college, and those huge receptions helped bring up his best-season
yards per team pass attempt rate above the 3.0 mark, which is a solid threshold to
hit.

Injuries hurt Brown’s Year 1 potential, but we can’t blame it all on that since he
played 15 games. He was active for four contests with significant snaps, failing
to rank higher than WR61 in weekly scoring in any of them.

Unfortunately, it looks like a miss for the model. It’s not like he was above the
90th percentile or anything, but wideouts over the 80th percentile mark usually
have some shot. With Brown, it doesn’t look like it’s going to happen.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           137
Tutu Atwell
WR • Los Angeles Rams

                     86.9%                                            71.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.1

Journey Comparables:                               Breshad Perriman
                                                   Cody Latimer
                                                   Andy Isabella

You’re eyes are not deceiving you: Tutu Atwell had a Z-Prospect score in the 87th
percentile. This, my friends, is the quintessential example of why we shouldn’t
just blindly follow this thing.

Could I put something in the model to say, “Stop! Hold it right there! You’re
looking at a 155-pound wide receiver! You don’t want to draft him!”

Yes, sure. But I just do it instinctively instead.

I mentioned earlier that wide receiver size isn’t a huge part of the model. It’s
probably because it’s working across a large sample. And, also, size is likely
captured in draft capital.

Unfortunately, there will be oddities that the model doesn’t catch. Rather than
change up a formula that has strong results, it’s easier to just recognize a
player as a clear anomaly and move on. And that’s what I did with Atwell.

Truth be told, Atwell had very impressive college numbers. And then the Rams
screwed everything up by taking him in the second round of the draft. So the Z-
Prospect Model sees the production, it only knocks him a tad for the size, it sees
the draft capital, and it says “Hey, he’s not that bad!”

Fortunately, my rankings didn’t have Atwell ranked high at all. It was hard — and
still is — to fathom a 155-pound wide receiver thriving in fantasy football at the
NFL level.

Perhaps my personal opinion here will end up being completely wrong. With Journey
Comparables like Cody Latimer and Andy Isabella, I’ll bet that I’m not.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           138
Anthony Schwartz
WR • Cleveland Browns

                     76.3%                                          69.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.5

Journey Comparables:                               Pharoh Cooper
                                                   Van Jefferson
                                                   Stedman Bailey

Are we sure the Rams didn’t draft Anthony Schwartz? With Journey Comparables of
Pharoh Cooper (drafted by the Rams in 2016), Van Jefferson (drafted by the Rams in
2020), and Stedman Bailey (drafted by the Rams in 2013), it seems like he
should’ve been.

Schwartz had an opportunity to take on a relatively large role in the Cleveland
offense this past year with such a shallow wide receiver depth chart, but nothing
happened. He saw five targets in Week 1 against the Chiefs, and that ended up
being his season high. He totaled just 18 more targets from then through the end
of the season.

He’s incredibly fast and can likely serve a field-stretching role in the league,
but with a 69th percentile Year 2 Model ranking, his odds of becoming a dependable
fantasy football piece are almost non-existent. Among the 37 wide receivers with
Year 2 Model scores in the 60th to 70th percentile from 2011 to 2019, only one
gave you a single season during Year 2 or Year 3 with 10 or more PPR points per
game. And it was the undrafted Jakobi Meyers, who had to climb the proverbial
ladder to get there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           139
Closing
We’ve now done two of the three things we set out to do at the start of
this guide.

We got deep into this stu . You now know the many inputs that go into
these models. More importantly, you now understand the why. Why does
early-declare status matter for wide receivers? Why is draft capital
important? Why does the running back model have more variance than
the wide receiver one? Why was JJ a complete moron with his approach
to Terrace Marshall last year?

We got nerdy. You know how I know we got nerdy? Because you’re
currently reading Page 138 of an analytical guide about prospects in
fantasy football.

We’ve got one more thing to do now.

Let’s go win.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2022 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                  140


                ff
