Hello Again!
This prospect guide dropped back in March, and, well, a whole lot’s
gone down since then. Including the NFL Draft!

So, as promised, the guide got a little post-draft makeover. Portions of it
remained the same — the Year 2 Model section is unchanged, as is the
breakdown of what goes into the Z-Prospect Model — but there are
important modi cations to note:

• All draft pro les now include an updated Z-Prospect Model score
     along with their listed Draft Capital Delta.

• Relevant, higher-end rookies have an updated pro le breakdown that
     talks about the player’s new outlook. On a player’s pro le page, you’ll
     see the word “update” before their blurb, designating new information
     about the player.

• The rookie rankings cheatsheet is redone.

• A new Z-Prospect Model cheatsheet was created to provide a
     snapshot of how the model views each player.

• A page full of notes was written to give the rankings some context.



Let’s crush some rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       1


                                                fi
                                           fi
      fi
fi
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
                                                   JJ Zachariason | 2023 Edition
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       2
 By viewing this digital product, you agree that under no circumstances shall you use this digital product or
 any portion of this digital product for anything but your own personal use and reference. For the avoidance
 of doubt, you shall not copy, re-sell, sublicense, rent out, share or otherwise distribute this digital product,
  or any other Late-Round Fantasy Football digital product, whether modi ed or not, to any third party. You
         agree not to use any derivative of Late-Round Fantasy Football’s products in a way which might be
          detrimental to Late-Round Fantasy Football or damage Late-Round Fantasy Football’s reputation.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                       3


                                                              fi
Contents
Hello Again! ............................................1

About the Author ........................................5

About This Guide ........................................6

The Z-Prospect Model ....................................9

       Overview ..........................................9

       The Inputs .......................................13

       The Outputs ......................................18

       Draft Capital Delta ..............................20

       Adding Subjectivity ..............................22

       Positional Focus .................................24

2023 Prospect Profiles .................................26

       Overview .........................................26

       Key Terms ........................................27

       Z-Prospect Model Cheatsheet ......................28

       Post-Draft Rankings Cheatsheet ...................29

       Rankings Notes ...................................30

       Running Back .....................................31

       Wide Receiver ....................................57

The Year 2 Model ......................................107

       Overview ........................................107

       Journey Comparables .............................110

       Running Back ....................................114

       Wide Receiver ...................................124

Closing ...............................................138




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                      4
About the Author
I’m not a traditional scout. Let’s get that out of the way.

If you’re reading this, you probably already knew that.

I’m a husband. I’m a dad. I’m a video gamer. I’m a Peloton rider. And I’m
a professional fantasy football analyst.

I use the term “professional” loosely. I’m self-employed, and I podcast
and break down fantasy football for a living. But I wear something other
than gym shorts maybe…eight times per year?

Fantasy football has been my job for a decade now. I started at
numberFire back in 2013 as the site’s Editor-In-Chief, and after the
company was bought by FanDuel in 2015, I worked there for seven years
in the same role.

Today, I’m solo-operating Late-Round Fantasy Football. I’m a CEO. I’m
kind of a big deal. (I’m not.)

I have a serious passion for fantasy football. It sounds silly — and
extremely nerdy — but it’s true. Some people like cars. Some like shoes.
Some are really into lm. For me, it’s fantasy football.

My sincere goal is to help you win your fantasy football leagues. Not just
by giving you answers to the test, though. That’s not sustainable.

Instead, I want to teach you a successful process that’s repeatable year
after year. I want to explain the why and the how.

I want to show you what it takes to consistently win at fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     5


         fi
          About This Guide
          When I clicked send, the anxiety really hit.

          It was the rst time the results of my prospect model — the Z-Prospect
          Model — were out in the open.

          In the past, I’d make one-o references to “my model” within my fantasy
          football analysis. Now, this guide and everything about that model was in
                                                                                                  Last Year’s
          the hands of a whole lot of fantasy football maniacs.
                                                                                              Prospect Guide
                                                                                          The 2022 Late-Round Prospect Guide was
          Now, people could really scrutinize my work.                                    the rst true Late-Round Fantasy Football
                                                                                            deliverable. That certainly added to the
                                                                                                                             stress.
          That’s a frightening feeling! It’s not that I lack con dence in what’s being
          produced. Quite the opposite. It’s just that the fantasy football world, like
          most worlds, is lled with this expectation of being kind of… awless.
          One mistake and someone could turn into a hater.

          That’s not how I operate, though.

          In a sports world lled with black-and-white analysis — one where Dak
          Prescott goes from being a top- ve quarterback one week to a cut
          candidate the next — I live in the gray area. Because that’s the most
          logical place to live.

          Last year’s debut of this prospect guide is littered with examples of this
          gray-area thinking. Take Christian Watson, a player that the Z-Prospect
          Model pegged as an 84th percentile prospect. You’ll learn more about
          what that means in a bit, but that’s a good-not-elite score.

          Did that rating mean he was incapable of becoming a high-end fantasy
          football wide receiver? Of course not. The details matter. The score was a
          good starting point, but there’s far more to a player’s outlook than a
          double-digit number. In his writeup within this guide — well, last year’s
          version — it was noted that he was a higher-variance player who had a




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                               6


                                                             fl
                                                  fi
                               fi
                          ff
                   fi
              fi
     fi
fi
good ceiling thanks to his athleticism. It was the oor that was
concerning.
                                                                                     We Don’t Talk
Or how about Isiah Pacheco? I screamed from the Twitter rooftops about              About Pacheco
Pacheco after he was selected in the seventh round by the Chiefs last
year.                                                                        Members of the Late-Round Fantasy Football
                                                                                 Discord didn’t want their leaguemates to
                                                                               know that the Z-Prospect Model liked Isiah
Did that mean that I saw this coming?                                         Pacheco last year. Referencing Encanto, we
                                                                             would sing, “We don’t talk about Pacheco…”
No! Not at all! The Z-Prospect Model liked Pacheco more than the
consensus seemed to like him, and he was a low-risk dart throw in rookie
drafts as a result. But a seventh-round running back should almost never
be projected to become the starter for his o ense.



        We’re not brain surgeons. We’re not trying to put a
        human on Mars. We don’t need to be super
        precise. We just need to be better than our
        leaguemates.
Fantasy football is a probability-driven game. And that fact is what drove
me to build the Z-Prospect Model in the rst place.

You see, a handful of years ago, I had no methodical way of evaluating
players entering the NFL. I had built a model, but my approach was…a
little chaotic.

After a rough 2019 prospect season, I realized that something needed to
change. I mean, I was out there promoting Andy Isabella as a legitimate
rookie draft option.

Like I said, something needed to change.

So I got to work. I did a deeper dive into collegiate data, and I started
doing more testing.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                         7


                                        fl
                                   ff
                              fi
     The end result was two separate mathematical models — one for
     running backs, one for wide receivers — that assisted yours truly in
      nding fantasy football gems.

     It’s now time for those models to assist you.

     You don’t need to be a math whiz to understand the things that I’ll talk
     about in this guide. You can leave the number-crunching to me.

     But do prepare yourself: It’s about to get nerdy.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                   8


fi
     The Z-Prospect Model
     Overview
     Fantasy football is a game about numbers. We care about production. So
     if we can nail down the most important inputs to that production, we’ll
     be long-term winners.

     Predicting what’s going to happen on a football eld isn’t easy. No one
     should be telling you otherwise. Your goal, though, isn’t to be perfect. It’s
     to be better than your competition.

     And, chances are, your competition probably doesn’t have a sound
     process that they follow year in and year out for most things fantasy
     football. With a dynasty rookie draft, they’re probably listening to people
     they trust, doing a little research themselves, and subjectively picking
     one guy over the next.

     When we scout through numbers, we’re able to formulate a trustworthy
     backbone. We can create a winning process that’s repeatable.

     So I approached my model building with a purpose. What was the very
     speci c thing I wanted to solve?

     After some thought, my brain put this out into the universe:



             The goal of the prospect models is to predict how
             well a running back and wide receiver will perform
             in fantasy football across his rst three seasons in
             the league.


     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        9


                                           fi
                                fi
fi
     Was it random?

     …Kind of?

     The thought process behind the model’s mission was that you’re going
     to have a general idea of how good a player is after his rst three years
     as a pro. Later breakouts happen, but not frequently.

     The next question, then, was, “How?” As in, “How do you measure
     performance for a player across his rst three seasons?”

     You could look at raw fantasy points scored, but that wouldn’t properly
     account for inevitable injuries. You could look at a player’s best points
     per game average, but sometimes uky seasons happen, too.

     To meet in the middle, I decided to average out a player’s best two
     seasons in points per game (in point per reception leagues) across the
      rst three years of his career. That could’ve come in Year 2 and Year 3,
     or it could’ve happened in Year 1 and Year 2. Whatever top-two seasons            My Background
     were best in points per game, those seasons were averaged out and
     used for that historical player.                                               I always get asked if I studied something
                                                                                       math-related in college. Nope. I’ve felt
                                                                                 comfortable with numbers my whole life, but
     Moving forward, I’ll be referring to this as a player’s “B2S” average,       what I’m doing here isn’t super complicated
     standing for “best two seasons.”                                                mathematically. I’m sure my high school
                                                                                      math teachers would be proud, though.

     The next thing I thought about was draft capital, or where a player was
     selected in the NFL Draft. If there was perfect correlation between draft
     capital and a player’s B2S, then why build a model in the rst place? You
     could just look at the NFL Draft and select players in your rookie draft
     based on that alone.

     So, I tested it.

     I took a giant sample of every wide receiver and running back who was
     either drafted or who attended the NFL Combine since 2006, and I
     threw them into a database. I then associated each player with their
     draft selection, where undrafted players got assigned the same number.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                            10


                                                      fi
                                                 fi
                                  fi
                             fl
fi
After seeing the correlation between draft capital and the B2S averages
among hundreds and hundreds of players, I knew what needed to
happen next.



        I needed to beat that correlation by a signi cant
        margin to make these models worthwhile.
To reiterate what I just said, if what I was building wouldn’t be any more
predictive than draft capital itself, what was the point?

My previous, i er models used college production, some NFL Combine
metrics, and player age to help determine who was good and who
wasn’t. Fundamentally, I knew that scouting through numbers was
possible, and I knew a lot of the metrics I had previously utilized
mattered to some degree.



        As I tend to say, only a fraction of productive
        college players are super productive in the NFL,
        but most super productive NFL players were
        productive in college.
There had to be data trends to lean on.

Without boring you to death, I ended up testing a ton of di erent metrics
to see if I could beat draft capital. I got very close to my goal before
having the realization that draft capital itself is an important piece to the
puzzle here, too.

I mean, think about it: Where a player gets drafted has so much intrinsic
value. A group of smart front-o ce people decided to choose that
player.

That’s free evaluation for us.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        11


                                                  ff
                                             fi
                    ffi
  ffi
Not only that, but where a guy gets drafted can in uence how quickly
that player is able to nd the eld. When a coach or team invests strong
draft capital in someone, chances are, they’re going to really want that
player to succeed.

So I plugged it into my model.

Voila!

With the help of draft capital, both the wide receiver and running back
models predicted a player’s best two seasons across his rst three years
way better than draft capital alone.

Oh, there’s more.

Technically, we’re not getting full use out of a model like this if it’s simply
beating out draft capital. In fantasy football, we’re trying to crush our
friends. Our coworkers. Strangers from hundreds of miles away who
share the obsession.

We’re not trying to be better than NFL teams.

So instead of seeing if the model was better at predicting a player’s B2S
than draft capital, I looked to see if it was more predictive than rookie
draft average draft position (ADP), or where fantasy managers were
selecting these players in drafts.

What I’m attempting to solve is di erent than what an NFL team is trying
to solve. What I’m attempting to solve is exactly what other fantasy
football managers are trying to solve.

Using My Fantasy League’s historical ADP, the results were clear: The
model I had built performed better than the public. Signi cantly better.

Phew.

The Z-Prospect Model (because my last name starts with the letter Z,
and I’m really creative) was born.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                          12


                                                fi
                                                 fi
                                         fl
                         ff
                    fi
          fi
The Inputs
You’re probably wondering what goes into this thing, huh?

Let’s start with running backs rst.

The running back model produces a size score, which is based on a
player’s Body Mass Index and weight. Are smaller running backs worse
at football than larger running backs? Not necessarily. Do coaches give
bigger-bodied backs more work in the NFL? Yes. Since volume drives
                                                                                Talent in Fantasy
fantasy football, that’s likely the reason size matters to this model.
                                                                                          Football
                                                                                  Running back size is a good example of
The model also utilizes what’s called a Speed Score, which is just a        where we sometimes have to separate talent
                                                                                   from what matters in fantasy football.
weight-adjusted 40-yard dash time. Bill Barnwell thought of the metric
                                                                             Smaller running backs can be very e ective
years ago after recognizing that not all 40-yard dashers are alike. It’s      for NFL teams, but those teams rarely feed
more impressive when a 240-pound running back runs a 4.4 40 versus a                                        those backs.

190-pound one.

And the model agrees! Mostly. A Speed Score threshold of 90 needs to
be hit — a modest number for any aspiring back — or else points are
deducted from a running back’s prospect score. But if a running back
hits, say, a 99th percentile Speed Score, it gets recognized the same
way a 65th percentile Speed Score would.

Next, there’s age. Quite simply, older running backs entering the league
get dinged a little more than someone who’s just 20 or 21 years old.

Finally, there are three main production metrics that the model utilizes
to formulate a stat score: best-season reception share, best-season total
touchdown share, and best-season total yards per team play. Each
metric has a di erent weight and degree of usability within the model.

Even though they’re running backs, there’s a lot of signal that comes
from best-season reception share, which measures the percentage of
team receptions a speci c running back accumulates.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                           13


                    fi
               fi
          ff
   ff
                          My hypothesis for this is that receptions show
                          versatility.
                 A lot of running backs with high reception shares don’t actually go on to
                 be top-notch pass-catchers in the NFL. Having a good reception share in
                 college, though, tells us that these players were used in a lot of di erent
                 ways, and that’s evidence for talent.

                 Total touchdown share is self-explanatory, but it’s the total number of
                 touchdowns a running back has divided by his team’s o ensive
                 touchdown tally. Of the three metrics, it’s the least important, likely
                 because touchdowns can be a little random.

                 And then there’s total yards per team play, which is a way of showing
                 how e ective a player was within his own o ense. What’s cool about the
                 metric is that it doesn’t care about speci cally volume or speci cally
                 e ciency. If a back averaged just four yards per carry but saw a ton of
                 work, he’s still got a shot to do well within the metric. If a player is more
                 of a pass-catching specialist and was really e cient with his touches, he
                 can still be ne in yards per team play, too.

                 Size, Speed Score, age, and those three production metrics. That’s it.
                 Add in draft capital, and we’re cookin’.

                 The wide receiver model has a little more to it.

                 Age is in the running back model, but it matters a lot more at wide
                 receiver.

                 There’s a metric called Breakout Age, or the age when a college wide                      Breakout Age
                 receiver hits a Dominator Rating of 20% or greater. What’s Dominator                       Calculations
                 Rating? Simply put, it’s a number that measures a player’s market share
                                                                                                 You’ve likely seen fantasy analysts talk about
                 in his o ense.
                                                                                                  Breakout Age before, but did you know that
                                                                                                 there’s not one singular way to calculate it? I
                 Breakout Age, then, is the age when a wide receiver sees a large share of       use a threshold that works for my model, but
                                                                                                           there’s merit to other Breakout Age
                 his collegiate o ense.                                                                                            calculations.


                 The correlation between Breakout Age and NFL performance exists




                 Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
                 Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                 14


                                                                            ff
                                                                       fi
                                                               ff
                                                         ffi
                                                    ff
                                               fi
                     ff
                fi
           ff
      ff
ffi
because when a human being does something well at a young age, that
human being is probably talented at doing that thing.

If a Freshman wide receiver is regularly beating upperclassman
cornerbacks, it’s impressive. That wide receiver hasn’t had the same
type of practice and experience, but he’s still able to post great
numbers.

Along the same lines of Breakout Age is whether or not a player declared
early for the draft.



        When a wide receiver leaves college for the NFL as
        a non-Senior, that’s a sign that he’s good at
        football. If he wasn’t, he likely would’ve stayed in
        school.
Since 2011, we’ve seen 49 wide receivers get selected in the rst round
of the NFL Draft. Of that group, 38 have played at least three seasons in
the NFL (we’re not counting players who were recently drafted).

Among those 38, 10 were non-early declares, playing a full four years in
college.

Let’s judge these players the same way the model does: by looking at a
player’s best two seasons average in points per game across his rst
three years. Or, as I called it earlier, B2S.

When we do that, the 10 wide receivers who didn’t declare early see an
average of 9.9 PPR points per game. Their best two seasons in points
per game over their rst three in the league averaged out to 9.9.

The remaining 28 wide receivers — the early-declare group — saw an
average of 12.6.

Now, to be clear, if a wide receiver didn’t declare early, he’s not done for.
Especially when you consider the fantasy football market.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        15


                                                         fi
                                                    fi
         fi
You see, a lot of analysts and gamers understand the importance of
early-declare status. And, sometimes, they lean on it too heavily.

Any repeat Late-Round Prospect Guide reader will remember that, last
year, the Z-Prospect Model was really into Chris Olave. But Olave, as
most know, wasn’t an early-declare wide receiver.

Oh, the horror!

This stresses the importance of using the model as a foundation. When
you pick apart individual traits without seeing the greater picture, you
end up missing out on stud wide receivers like Olave.

Does early-declare status matter? Yes. Is it everything? Absolutely not.

Now, unlike the running back model, NFL Combine athleticism
measurables don’t matter for wide receivers. And while size is an input,
it’s not hugely important. At least compared to running backs.

That may sound crazy. Shouldn’t a bigger-bodied, physically-gifted wide
receiver be highly sought after?

Not necessarily.

Subjectively, you probably would want an enormous and athletic wide
receiver on your team over a tiny and slow one.



        But it’s very rare for completely unathletic wide
        receivers to get drafted early in the rst place.
Part of the reason size and athleticism isn’t a big deal in the wide
receiver model is because it’s likely already captured in draft capital.
And draft capital is in the wide receiver model.

Not only that, but wide receivers do di erent jobs on a football eld.
Cooper Kupp doesn’t win the same way DK Metcalf does. Keenan Allen
doesn’t do the same things Mike Evans does. Metcalf and Evans are




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                   16


                                                     fi
                                   fi
                           ff
      more physically dominant, and even though they’re highly productive as
      pros, Kupp and Allen are, too.

      If a player completely bombs the NFL Combine — and I’m talking like,
      15th percentile marks across the board — you’d probably want to
      remove that player from your consideration set. Chances are, though,
      that same player won’t have good draft capital, and he likely wouldn’t
      have had the best college production pro le. So, in the end, the lack of
      athleticism and size doesn’t matter much because more important
      factors weren’t going his way.

      This is why it was di cult to knock Devonta Smith’s size when he was
      entering the league in 2021. Was his low BMI a concern? Slightly, I
      suppose. But Smith had an absurd production pro le while being
      selected 10th overall. To me, the biggest knock was the fact that he
      wasn’t an early-declare wide receiver, not the fact that he’s a skinny
      dude. He ended up grading out as an elite player in the model.

      Moving on, there are three production statistics the wide receiver model
      focuses on for a player’s stat score: best-season receptions per game,          Z-Prospect Model
      best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt, and best-season
                                                                                            Stat Scores
      touchdown share.
                                                                                         You may see references to “stat score”
      On its own, receptions per game isn’t that great of a metric. It doesn’t        throughout the guide, and all it means is a
                                                                                           player’s score when looking solely at
      even factor in team o ense or tendencies — it’s not a market share-                                   production metrics.
      related statistic.

      My guess as to why it helps the wide receiver model is because it’s
      working alongside best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt.

      Receiving yards per team pass attempt is similar to total yards per team
      play at running back in that it’s a market share statistic that kind of looks
      like an e ciency one. Big plays can admittedly skew the results of the
      metric — albeit slightly — so my guess is that adding in receptions per
      game provides a baseline for volume.

      To put that in a more consumable way, if a player is actually distorting
      his receiving yards per team play number through big plays, receptions
      per game can help bring things back to Earth. Because it’s going to be




      Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
      Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                             17


                                              fi
                                     fi
                    ff
              ffi
ffi
hard to create monster plays reception after reception. And if the
wideout is doing that reception after reception, then he’s probably a
good wide receiver.

Receiving yards per team pass attempt is the metric that gets the most
weight in the model. The one that gets the least amount of love is
touchdown share, which, just like the running back model, is probably
because touchdowns bring some variance.

So we’ve got Breakout Age, early-declare status, size, draft capital, and
three production metrics. The nal two things that go into the wide
receiver model are what I call “conference factor” and “teammate
factor.” Wideouts who played in speci c conferences get additional
points added to their prospect score. That seems to matter more for the
position than at running back. And receivers who played with good
teammates in college get a slight bump, too.


The Outputs
The nice part about prospecting through data is that you can test and
see if a model works.




The table above shows the results of the wide receiver model from 2011
through 2020. The left column gives you the percentile bucket that a
prospect fell into within the Z-Prospect Model, and the middle of the
table tells you the percentage of players from that percentile grouping to
have averaged a particular points per game mark in B2S.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     18


                          fi
                   fi
     Let’s pretend a wide receiver scored 10, 12, and 17 PPR points per
     game across his rst three seasons in the league. We’d throw out that
     average of 10 (his lowest points per game output) and completely focus
     on the 12 and 17 in order to capture his B2S. The average of those two
     numbers is 14.5, placing that wide receiver in the “14+” bucket but not
     the “16+” one.

     Again, that’s what the B2S acronym is all about.

     As you can see, the wide receiver model isn’t spotless. In fact, players
     ranking in the 80th to 90th percentile have fared similarly to players who
     ranked in the 90th to 95th. It doesn’t mean the model is wrong or bad —
     that particular example is most likely due to sample size variance.



               What’s most important with a table like this is the
               general trends.
     There’s a very clear drop-o when a player is unable to hit the 80th
     percentile as a prospect. And if a wideout is a 95th percentile incoming
     rookie, his chance of hitting big is pret-tay, pret-tay good.

     The running back visual looks a lot like the wide receiver one:




     Each o season, I test and see if there are any new ways to make these
     models more predictive. A focus this o season — and this will come in




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     19


                                ff
                     ff
          fi
ff
handy given this year’s running back class — surrounded running back
weight.

Previously, BMI was the weight-related metric in the running back
model. But, now, there’s also a focus on raw weight because it does get
signal. And the model is now better at forecasting as a result.

The running back model’s output shares some similarities to the wide
receiver one, except we’re a little more focused on the 85th percentile or
better instead of the 80th.

These tables are important to keep in mind as you read through this
guide. I’ll be providing percentile scores for prospects, and you can use
those scores to get a rough idea of a player’s hit rate.


Draft Capital Delta
I’ve talked a lot about draft capital and its importance to the models.
Naturally, because it’s an input, there’s a connection between how the
model sees players and where they were drafted. Especially at running
back, where draft capital matters more.

Not only that, but good players are often beloved in both lm evaluation
and numbers-based analysis. Ja’Marr Chase broke the Z-Prospect
Model a couple of years ago, but traditional scouting saw him as an
insanely good prospect, too. There’s obvious overlap in the way the
model may view a player and the way the NFL — draft capital — does.

What about when there’s not?

Well, let me tell you a little story about a running back named Isiah
Pacheco.

Anyone who read this guide a year ago was likely targeting Pacheco with
a later-round rookie pick. I mean, the writeup for him literally said,
“Pacheco should be a top late-round target in rookie drafts.”

As I said earlier, the expectation for Pacheco wasn’t that he’d become
one of the key running backs for the high-powered Chiefs’ o ense as a




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     20


                                                    ff
                                               fi
          seventh-round rookie running back. The hit rate for seventh-round
          running backs is about as good as an episode of Friends. (Stop it. That
          show is bad.) Expecting that would’ve been horrible process.

          In truth, Pacheco had a 48th percentile score in the Z-Prospect Model.
          He was technically a below-average running back in the sample we’re
          working with.

          But he was also the 251st selection in the NFL Draft. And that’s key.

          Among running backs in the Z-Prospect Model database, that draft
          capital ranked in the 38th percentile. (Remember, there are undrafted
          players in there, so while the 251st overall selection is certainly late, it
          could’ve been far worse.)

          That means Pacheco looked better in the model than he did through the
          lens of the NFL Draft. The di erence between his draft capital and his Z-
          Prospect Model score was roughly +10.4%. That favorable deviation was
          one of the many reasons he became a target in rookie drafts last year.

          This di erence in prospect score percentile and draft capital percentile
          is what I aptly call Draft Capital Delta. And it can be a helpful tool.

          It’s just not everything. Transparency is key here, and, admittedly, Isiah
          Pacheco did not have the best Draft Capital Delta in last year’s running
          back class. Tyler Badie and Kevin Harris both ranked ahead of him.

          But that’s OK! We’re not drafting strictly o of Draft Capital Delta. We’re
          merely recognizing that players with higher Draft Capital Deltas will
          become values more often than players with lower ones.

          Because they really do. In the Z-Prospect Model dataset, there are 31
          running backs who were drafted while also seeing a Draft Capital Delta
                                                                                                 The Best Draft
          above 5%, all while playing three years in the league. Of those 31, 7 were              Capital Delta
          able to hit a double-digit B2S. Meaning 22.6% of these players saw 10-
                                                                                         The running back with the best Draft Capital
          plus PPR points per game when averaging their top-two seasons during             Delta in the Z-Prospect Model’s history is
          their rst three in the league.                                                                                Aaron Jones.



          Among the running backs who were at -5% or worse — so on the




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                              21


                                          ff
                           ff
     ff
fi
          negative end — that number is 3 of 43, or less than 7%.

          The same results hold true at wide receiver. Of wide receivers in the
          model who were drafted, who’ve nished up their third year, and who
          had a Draft Capital Delta above 5%, 15.4% had a double-digit B2S. On
          the ip side, just 9.0% of wide receivers with a Draft Capital Delta worse
          than -5% hit that mark.

          The metric is not an end-all. It’s just a piece to the puzzle. And it’s a
          piece that can be mighty helpful at the extremes.


          Adding Subjectivity
          These models are cool and all, but I’ll be the rst to tell you that they
          won’t give you all the answers. There are actually some fundamental
           aws to them.

          Look no further than Jaylen Waddle a couple of years ago. Coming out of
          Alabama, Waddle didn’t have a very good production pro le. He didn’t
          have a great Breakout Age, and all three production metrics were below
          average.

          Waddle had a Z-Prospect score that placed him in the 96th percentile.
          Nothing wrong with that. But given he went sixth overall, he had a Draft
          Capital Delta of -3.0%, telling us that he was overdrafted.

          In that 2021 draft class, Ja’Marr Chase, Devonta Smith, Rashod
          Bateman, and Elijah Moore all had better or similar prospect scores
          compared to Waddle. My rankings, however, placed Waddle third at wide
          receiver. He was in a tier above Bateman and Moore.

          Why?

          Nuance. That’s why.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    22


                                                           fi
                                             fi
                                 fi
     fl
fl
                  Seeing how a player looks in a model can be
                  helpful, but I’ll never tell you to stop there. Looking
                  at a player’s journey and — gasp —
                  watching the player play is always a solid idea as
                  well.
          With Waddle, there were clear reasons as to why his analytical pro le
          was lacking. During his Freshman year, he outproduced rst-round wide
          receiver talent. His snaps did dip as a Sophomore, but then as a Junior
          — his nal collegiate season — he was injured after his rst four games
          played. Through those four games, he had more receiving yards for
          Alabama than Heisman winner Devonta Smith.

          Should we make small-sample assumptions? No, of course not. We can’t
          say that Waddle would’ve posted better numbers than Smith had he
          played the entirety of his Junior season.

          We just don’t have to think in such a black and white way.

          The fact that Waddle still ranked as a 96th percentile prospect in the Z-
          Prospect Model despite the poor production pro le was telling. Imagine
          a world where he didn’t get hurt during his nal season! It wasn’t hard to
          give him a subjective boost in rankings as a result.

          Considering the Waddle example, you may be wondering why the model
          doesn’t use per-game numbers for some of the metrics.

          To be blunt, it’s because it doesn’t matter.                                      Drake London’s
                                                                                                    Pro le
          Looking at yards per team pass attempt in games played, for instance, is
          good context to have, but you run into issues where a player’s top               One player who didn’t look all that hot in
                                                                                      yards per team pass attempt last season was
          season is all twisted because of a small sample size.                                Drake London. He had an injury- lled
                                                                                      collegiate career. But that context was noted
                                                                                       in his prospect guide pro le, and he still had
          I’ve tested it, and full-season numbers work better within this model. If
                                                                                                 a seriously great Z-Prospect score.
          more detail is needed, I can always add subjective context.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                             23


                                                                   fi
                                                         fi   fi
                                                fi
                                          fi
                  fi
             fi
     fi
fi
     Another good illustration of where my model and rankings disagreed was
     with Dameon Pierce last season. He was a 68th percentile prospect
     entering the league thanks to a pretty mediocre production pro le in
     college.

     But he was clearly not as bad as the pro le suggested. According to Pro
     Football Focus, Pierce had the highest rushing grade in all of college
     football in 2021. He was also an incredible tackle-breaker.

     That forced him up my rankings.

     It’s OK to view players di erently than how a model views them.

     Let me give you one last example. Many analysts have found success
     looking at return yardage as an input for wide receiver prospects. If a
     wideout had a lot of return yards on punts and kicks, then it’s probably a
     sign that the wide receiver has ability — coaches put their best play-
     makers in those return positions.

     My model doesn’t have return yardage as an input, but when I’m
     perusing prospects, it’s something I keep in the back of my mind as a
     positive indicator.

     There’s nothing wrong with doing that. There’s nothing wrong with
     adding a little subjectivity to your evaluation as you use the model as
     your guide.


     Positional Focus
     So far, you’ve learned all about the inner workings of the Z-Prospect
     Model. You know which metrics are most meaningful to it, you can see
     the importance of draft capital, and you’re aware that it’s not perfect.
                                                                                     A Tight End Model
     Before sending you o to read about the 2023 class, you may be
                                                                                    I worked for hours on a potential tight end
     questioning why the emphasis here has solely been on running backs
                                                                                    model this o season, but to no avail. If you
     and wide receivers. And that’s a reasonable question to ask!                  want a quick and dirty way to evaluate them
                                                                                  analytically: Grab athletic tight ends who get
                                                                                                                   drafted early.
     As you know, running backs and wide receivers are the lifeblood of




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                           24


                                                          fi
                                  fi
                   ff
              ff
ff
fantasy football. You start more of them — they’re higher in demand —
so they’re the central pieces to the game.

That alone was the reason I went on the journey of building running back
and wide receiver models. They just matter more.

But I’ve also started the creation of quarterback and tight end models. It
just hasn’t gotten very far.

There could be something in the future, but for now, all the love is being
given to backs and wideouts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     25
     2023 Prospect Pro les
     Overview
     It’s rare for a running back or wide receiver to emerge as a star in the
     league without an NFL Combine invite. It certainly happens — Austin
     Ekeler and Adam Thielen both became studs after being skipped over.

     But just because there are exceptions to the rule doesn’t mean the rule
     is invalid.

     Strictly from a probability perspective, for fantasy football purposes, we
     should care most about the players who were invited to the NFL
     Combine. Period. That shouldn’t be debated.

     So that’s where the focus is at for these prospect pro les.

     There were 26 running backs invited to this year’s NFL Combine. There
     were 50 wide receivers who were awarded the same honor.



            I pro led them. Every single one of them. I looked
            at their analytical pro les, and I studied the type of
            player they may be at the next level.
     These outlooks are bound to change post-draft — and when they do, I’ll
     send you an updated version of this guide — but it’s never a bad idea to
     have a good grasp on a class before the draft happens.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                     26


                                               fi
                                 fi
                     fi
fi
Key Terms
Z-Prospect Score: The score — often in percentile form — given to an
incoming rookie in the Z-Prospect Model. It’s based on the factors
outlined in the Z-Prospect Overview section of this guide.

B2S: The Z-Prospect Model attempts to predict how well a player will do
in fantasy football across his rst three years in the league. In doing this,
it tests against the average of a player’s top-two seasons in PPR points
per game during his rst three years as a pro. This is referred to as B2S
(Best Two Seasons).

Draft Capital Delta: The percentile di erence between a player’s Z-
Prospect score versus where he was drafted in the actual NFL Draft.
Anything under 0 means the player was overdrafted, and anything over 0
means the player was underdrafted.

Speed Score: A concept developed by Bill Barnwell to help appropriately
weight 40-yard dash times based on a player’s size. In the Z-Prospect
Model, anything under 90 at running back is a red ag.

Statistical Comparables: Players in history who appear to have similar
analytical pro les to the player being analyzed. This is based on things
like size, early-declare status, and production metrics.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       27


                                         fl
                           ff
                  fi
         fi
  fi
Z-Prospect Model Cheatsheet


                     Running Back                                   Wide Receiver
            Player              Z-Prospect   Delta         Player               Z-Prospect   Delta
        1   Bijan Robinson         98.5%      0.5%     1   Jaxon Smith-Njigba      95.8%       0.2%
        2   Jahmyr Gibbs           98.1%      -0.2%    2   Jordan Addison          94.2%       0.3%
        3   Zach Charbonnet        90.8%      -1.0%    3   Quentin Johnston        93.4%      -1.4%
        4   Tank Bigsby            85.4%      3.6%     4   Zay Flowers             92.9%      -1.4%
        5   Kendre Miller          83.5%      -2.7%    5   Josh Downs              86.7%       8.5%
        6   Devon Achane           81.0%      -2.2%    6   Jonathan Mingo          84.2%      -5.8%
        7   Tyjae Spears           78.8%      -4.6%    7   Jalin Hyatt             83.9%       4.3%
        8   Israel Abanikanda      70.8%      5.6%     8   Jayden Reed             83.4%      -3.1%
        9   Evan Hull              69.6%      12.9%    9   Marvin Mims             82.2%       0.2%
       10   Roschon Johnson        64.5%     -10.2%   10   Rashee Rice             78.1%      -6.9%
       11   Chase Brown            59.1%      -0.2%   11   Tank Dell               76.8%      -3.9%
       12   Deuce Vaughn           54.0%      7.8%    12   Cedric Tillman          75.6%      -3.9%
       13   Chris Rodriguez        47.4%      -4.1%   13   Kayshon Boutte          70.7%      18.8%
       14   Sean Tucker            47.2%      11.2%   14   Parker Washington       67.2%      14.3%
       15   Eric Gray              44.5%     -13.1%   15   Tyler Scott             65.1%       1.0%
       16   DeWayne McBride        44.3%      0.0%    16   Trey Palmer             59.5%       8.8%
       17   Zach Evans             36.3%      -9.2%   17   Michael Wilson          58.8%     -14.8%
       18   Tavion Thomas          25.5%     -10.5%   18   Charlie Jones           53.9%     -11.3%
       19   Kenny McIntosh         23.8%     -16.8%   19   AT Perry                53.5%       3.9%
       20   Tiyon Evans            19.2%     -16.8%   20   Dontayvion Wicks        52.6%      -7.2%
       21   Keaton Mitchell        18.0%     -18.0%   21   Tre Tucker              51.0%     -21.7%
       22   Mohamed Ibrahim        17.8%     -18.2%   22   Xavier Hutchinson       50.3%       2.9%
       23   Travis Dye             13.1%     -22.9%   23   Puka Nacua              46.5%      -7.9%
       24   Deneric Prince         11.9%     -24.1%   24   Andrei Iosivas          45.0%      -2.1%
       25   Camerun Peoples        11.4%     -24.6%   25   Demario Douglas         42.9%      -2.4%




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                              28
Post-Draft Rankings Cheatsheet
                   Single-QB Top-48                          Superflex Top-48
                      Player          Pos   Tier                 Player         Pos   Tier
          1   Bijan Robinson           RB     1     1   Bijan Robinson          RB     1
          2   Jahmyr Gibbs             RB     2     2   Anthony Richardson      QB     2
          3   Jaxon Smith-Njigba       WR     3     3   Bryce Young             QB     2
          4   Jordan Addison           WR     4     4   CJ Stroud               QB     2
          5   Quentin Johnston         WR     4     5   Jahmyr Gibbs            RB     3
          6   Zay Flowers              WR     4     6   Jaxon Smith-Njigba      WR     4
          7   Anthony Richardson       QB     5     7   Jordan Addison          WR     5
          8   Zach Charbonnet          RB     5     8   Quentin Johnston        WR     5
          9   Devon Achane             RB     5     9   Zay Flowers             WR     5
         10   Dalton Kincaid           TE     5    10   Will Levis              QB     6
         11   Bryce Young              QB     6    11   Zach Charbonnet         RB     6
         12   CJ Stroud                QB     6    12   Devon Achane            RB     6
         13   Jayden Reed              WR     6    13   Dalton Kincaid          TE     6
         14   Marvin Mims              WR     6    14   Jayden Reed             WR     7
         15   Kendre Miller            RB     6    15   Marvin Mims             WR     7
         16   Jonathan Mingo           WR     6    16   Kendre Miller           RB     7
         17   Sam LaPorta              TE     6    17   Jonathan Mingo          WR     7
         18   Josh Downs               WR     7    18   Sam LaPorta             TE     7
         19   Jalin Hyatt              WR     7    19   Hendon Hooker           QB     7
         20   Roschon Johnson          RB     8    20   Josh Downs              WR     8
         21   Rashee Rice              WR     8    21   Jalin Hyatt             WR     8
         22   Michael Mayer            TE     8    22   Roschon Johnson         RB     9
         23   Tank Bigsby              RB     9    23   Rashee Rice             WR     9
         24   Tyjae Spears             RB     9    24   Michael Mayer           TE     9
         25   Luke Musgrave            TE     9    25   Tank Bigsby             RB    10
         26   Cedric Tillman           WR     9    26   Tyjae Spears            RB    10
         27   Israel Abanikanda        RB    10    27   Luke Musgrave           TE    10
         28   Chase Brown              RB    10    28   Cedric Tillman          WR    10
         29   Kayshon Boutte           WR    10    29   Israel Abanikanda       RB    11
         30   Tank Dell                WR    10    30   Chase Brown             RB    11
         31   Tyler Scott              WR    10    31   Kayshon Boutte          WR    11
         32   Tucker Kraft             TE    11    32   Tank Dell               WR    11
         33   Trey Palmer              WR    11    33   Tyler Scott             WR    11
         34   Puka Nacua               WR    11    34   Tucker Kraft            TE    12
         35   Zach Evans               RB    12    35   Trey Palmer             WR    12
         36   Darnell Washington       TE    12    36   Puka Nacua              WR    12
         37   DeWayne McBride          RB    12    37   Zach Evans              RB    13
         38   Deuce Vaughn             RB    12    38   Darnell Washington      TE    13
         39   Evan Hull                RB    13    39   Stetson Bennett         QB    13
         40   Luke Schoonmaker         TE    13    40   DeWayne McBride         RB    13
         41   Michael Wilson           WR    13    41   Deuce Vaughn            RB    13
         42   AT Perry                 WR    13    42   Evan Hull               RB    14
         43   Eric Gray                RB    14    43   Luke Schoonmaker        TE    14
         44   Xavier Hutchinson        WR    14    44   Michael Wilson          WR    14
         45   Charlie Jones            WR    14    45   AT Perry                WR    14
         46   Brenton Strange          TE    14    46   Eric Gray               RB    15
         47   Parker Washington        WR    14    47   Xavier Hutchinson       WR    15
         48   Dontayvion Wicks         WR    15    48   Charlie Jones           WR    15




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                     29
Rankings Notes
• Anthony Richardson may not have been the first quarterback
  drafted, but with Shane Steichen and his athletic profile, he
  has the highest ceiling at quarterback in this class.
• The tiebreaker being used for CJ Stroud versus Bryce Young is
  draft capital.
• There may be some concern about Jahmyr Gibbs’ size, but at the
  very least, he’s going to likely maintain his dynasty value
  best year over year compared to any of the wide receivers in
  the class.
• There’s a new tight end model that’s not quite ready to be
  released, and it likes Sam LaPorta most in this class. Had
  Dalton Kincaid tested, it would’ve been close. Kincaid gets
  the TE1 spot because of landing spot, but LaPorta is legit.
• Luke Musgrave is great in the new model, too. It likes him
  more than Michael Mayer thanks to better athleticism. That’s
  why they’re in the same tier.
• This tight end class is really, really strong. Just keep in
  mind that they don’t appreciate in value as well as running
  back and wide receiver from Year 1 to Year 2. The rankings
  reflect this.
• Landing spot rarely dictates my rankings, but Devon Achane to
  Miami is an exception to that rule. The model has him as a
  decent prospect anyway, and the model is recognizing his size.
• Things become a lot more volatile after the Zay Flowers range.
  Pay attention to tiers, because there’s a good chance moving
  back a bit in rookie drafts after that point in time is the
  move.
• The Jayden Reed, Marvin Mims, Josh Downs, Kendre Miller, and
  Jonathan Mingo tier really comes down to preference. If your
  team desperately needs a running back, it’s totally fine to
  take Miller over any of those wide receivers.
• That tier is also one that the Z-Prospect Model seems to like.
  If you can trade back into that tier, it might be beneficial.
• One of the harder decisions was Tank Bigsby versus Tyjae
  Spears. I sided with the model, but there’s no denying that
  Spears could have much better 2024 opportunity. But keep
  Spears’ injury history in mind.
• With more thought, Roschon Johnson might be a really strong
  target in rookie drafts. His competition isn’t locked in, and
  he’s got the best pass-catching chops in that Bears backfield.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                           30
Running Back

Bijan Robinson
RB • Texas Longhorns (Atlanta Falcons)

                     98.6%                                           +0.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             215

Statistical Comparables:                           Breece Hall
                                                   Ezekiel Elliott
                                                   Najee Harris

Update: We don’t often get a top-10 running back selection in the NFL Draft, but
we did this year when the Falcons drafted Bijan Robinson. His pre- to post-draft
percentile ranking didn’t change a ton, but the landing spot could’ve been a lot
worse than Atlanta.

Falcons running backs low-key crushed it last year. Among qualified backs, per Pro
Football Focus data, Tyler Allgeier was sixth-best in yards after contact per
attempt, Caleb Huntley ranked 10th, and Cordarrelle Patterson was in the top-30.
All three ranked in the top-15 in numberFire’s success rate metric, too.

One could argue that Arthur Smith’s scheme would’ve allowed Atlanta to go in a
different direction with their eighth-overall pick, but from a fantasy
perspective, it shows us that Robinson is capable of going nuts.

Robinson’s Draft Capital Delta isn’t huge because early-round picks won’t have big
numbers within the statistic. His prospect score places him elite company, though.
He’s the top pick in rookie drafts this year. Don’t overthink it.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              31
Jahmyr Gibbs
RB • Alabama Crimson Tide (Detroit Lions)

                      98.0%                                          -0.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            199

Statistical Comparables:                           Giovani Bernard
                                                   Isaiah Pead
                                                   Alvin Kamara

Update: The Lions snagged Jahmyr Gibbs much earlier than expected, and it gave his
prospect score a huge boost. It may seem weird seeing Gibbs’ score so close to
Bijan Robinson’s, but it’s mostly because these scores are represented by
percentiles. Gibbs’ raw score is more in line with players like Najee Harris and
Travis Etienne, two backs who went in the mid-20s.

The main concern with Gibbs is his size, and that hasn’t changed. From 2011 to
2020, we saw 18 running backs get drafted in the top-100 while weighing in under
210 pounds. Of those 18, just 3 (16.7%) hit 14 or more PPR points per game in a
season across one of their first three years in the league. That number is 25 of
54 (46.3%) when focusing on the players at or above 210 pounds.

Gibbs also landed on a team that’s likely looking to divvy up the backfield. The
Lions signed David Montgomery to a three-year deal, and his guaranteed money
should keep him there for at least two of those three. It’s unlikely Gibbs becomes
the goal-line guy for them given Montgomery’s presence.

With all this being said, it’s clear that Gibbs is a unique, outlier-type
prospect. He joins Saquon Barkley and Christian McCaffrey as the only first-round
running backs since 2011 with a best-season reception share above 17%. And prior
to Gibbs going in the first, only CMC had multiple collegiate seasons with a
reception share above 15% among the group.

Gibbs is an elite pass-catcher with crazy speed, and first-round backs have a
great track record. You should feel fine about taking him as early as the 1.02 in
your single-quarterback formats, even with the size concerns.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             32
Zach Charbonnet
RB • UCLA Bruins (Seattle Seahawks)

                     90.8%                                         -1.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            214

Statistical Comparables:                           Sony Michel
                                                   Kareem Hunt
                                                   Tevin Coleman

Update: The draft capital was there for Zach Charbonnet. The landing spot was not.

Pete Carroll loves himself some running backs, and for a second straight year,
Seattle took a back with a second-round pick. And while this year’s back isn’t as
good as last year’s, he’s still a great prospect.

Charbonnet has the rare combination of size and a good receiving profile. He’s
just the fifth running back since 2011 to get drafted in Round 2 with a best-
season reception share north of 12% while weighing more than 210 pounds. The other
four were Joe Mixon, Le’Veon Bell, D’Andre Swift, and Daniel Thomas.

Clearly, the problem here is that Charbonnet is now sharing a backfield with
Kenneth Walker. If you’ve read Walker’s Year 2 profile, then you already know that
he struggled to gain positive yards in 2022. And he wasn’t used heavily as a pass-
catcher.

That’s where Charbonnet can help. Walker’s a home-run-hitting running back, and he
can carry a big workload. But Charbonnet can complement that as more of a grinder
and pass-catcher out of the backfield.

It’s certainly a rough landing spot for Charbonnet. We’re unlikely going to see
him become a high-end fantasy back without a Walker injury. And it’s not like
Walker’s going to be off the team in a year. So even though the model likes him,
you’ve got to subjectively move Charbonnet down your rankings post-draft.

Pete Carroll strikes again.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             33
Devon Achane
RB • Texas A&M Aggies (Miami Dolphins)

                     81.0%                                          -2.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            188

Statistical Comparables:                           Isaiah Pead
                                                   Tyler Ervin
                                                   Justin Jackson

Update: There was one obvious landing spot for Devon Achane in this year’s draft
that would’ve made him a much more attractive fantasy option.

And he landed there.

Going to Mike McDaniel and the Dolphins is perfect. Absolutely perfect. His speed
can kill defenses in the outside zone scheme, as evidenced by previous running
backs in the Shanahan system like Elijah Mitchell (4.40 40-yard dash) and Raheem
Mostert (4.43). Both Mitchell and Mostert entered the league as smaller backs,
too, weighing in at 201 and 195 pounds, respectively.

The size thing is still an issue, of course. Achane is only 188 pounds. Since 2011
— perhaps beyond — we haven’t seen a sub-190-pound back get to 100 carries in a
single season. Tarik Cohen’s the only one who’s seen any significant fantasy
production, too.

But of the 19 running backs in the prospect database who were under that 190-pound
mark prior to this year’s draft, none were top-100 picks like Achane. Tarik Cohen
had the best draft capital from that subset, and he went 119th overall.

And he just happened to be the back who performed best.

Achane might not see a bell-cow workload, but he has a chance to be insanely
efficient in one of the fastest offenses we’ve ever seen. There aren’t obvious
ways to go at running back in your rookie drafts, so betting on Achane as a
Dolphin isn’t a tough thing to do.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             34
Deuce Vaughn
RB • Kansas State Wildcats (Dallas Cowboys)

                     54.0%                                            +7.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’5”

Weight:                                                                            179

Statistical Comparables:                           Tarik Cohen
                                                   Jacquizz Rodgers
                                                   Donnel Pumphrey

Update: There’s no denying Deuce Vaughn’s production profile. His stat score isn’t
only the best in this year’s draft class, but it’s the best in the entire Z-
Prospect database. Vaughn was that dude at Kansas State.

The problem? Well, with the pre-draft version of this guide, the problem was only
his size. He’s 5’5’’, matching JJ Taylor as the shortest back to either get
drafted or go to the NFL Combine since 2011. At 176 pounds, he’s unlikely to carry
a huge workload in the league.

Between the release of that guide and now, Vaughn ran his 40-yard dash at his Pro
Day. And he clocked in at 4.56, giving him one of the lowest Speed Scores in the
database.

You’ve got problems when a smaller back isn’t fast.

Vaughn still comes out with a positive Draft Capital Delta because the production
was so absurd, but his overall prospect score as a sixth-round pick isn’t anything
special. He did land in Dallas, though, and he could see work in that offense
immediately. The team’s depth chart — as it stands today — consists of just Tony
Pollard, Malik Davis, Rico Dowdle, Ronald Jones, and Vaughn.

If Vaughn had shown up and ran a sub-4.5 40, things might look different. He’s
merely a low-ceiling, medium-floor late-round rookie pick now.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             35
Sean Tucker
RB • Syracuse Orange (Undrafted)

                     47.2%                                            +11.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            207

Statistical Comparables:                           Jeremy McNichols
                                                   Eno Benjamin
                                                   Dalvin Cook

Update: Sean Tucker had unfortunate medicals, and it’s likely the reason he went
undrafted. He’s got one of the best production profiles from an undrafted running
back that you’ll find, with top-eight numbers in all three production metrics
within this class. That’s resulting in him being a top-10 undrafted free agent
that the prospect model’s ever seen.

We know UDFAs don’t work out at a very high rate, but in deep leagues, Tucker
could still be considered. It appears as though he signed with the Buccaneers
after the draft, and they’ve got a depth chart that’s climbable.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             36
Tank Bigsby
RB • Auburn Tigers (Jacksonville Jaguars)

                     85.4%                                           +3.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            210

Statistical Comparables:                           DeMarco Murray
                                                   Charles Sims
                                                   Jeremy Langford

Update: Tank Bigsby’s size and best-season reception share isn’t easy to find.
There’ve only been eight running backs since 2011 to have a best-season reception
share at or above 18% while weighing in at 210-plus pounds. Three of those backs
had top-100 draft capital: David Johnson, Charles Sims, and Rachaad White.

Bigsby makes four.

That’s certainly not bad company to be part of. And, if you extend that draft
capital filter to the top-130, you get Tony Pollard in there, too. Pretty sweet.

Unfortunately, Bigsby fell to Jacksonville where he’ll be competing for touches
with Travis Etienne. He won’t be getting a backfield to himself. But at least
Etienne ranked well outside the top-10 last year in running back rush share per
game, and we saw Jacksonville utilize James Robinson a bit at the start of the
season in order to keep Etienne fresh. Head coach Doug Pederson has openly said
that the team needs two or three guys to make the run game work.

Just don’t go crazy. Bigsby’s got a really solid prospect score, but he’s going to
be playing with Etienne for at least the next two seasons. Chances are, he’ll be a
flex play at best with the chance to step into a starter role with an injury.
That’s something that should be on your dynasty roster, but not something you need
to prioritize in your rookie draft.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             37
Eric Gray
RB • Oklahoma Sooners (New York Giants)

                     44.5%                                        -13.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             207

Statistical Comparables:                           Matt Dayes
                                                   Sony Michel
                                                   Kyle Hicks

Update: Eric Gray got some love in this guide pre-draft, and then he tested at his
Pro Day. He ran a 4.62 40-yard dash, giving him a Pro Day-adjusted Speed Score
south of 90. When that’s the case, running backs get dinged pretty hard in the
model.

If you were to not adjust his 40 time for it being a Pro Day, he would’ve been
just over that 90 Speed Score mark. And his prospect score would’ve been in the
59th percentile or so.

But we’ve got to trust the process here.

Gray going to the Giants is pretty interesting. The G-Men don’t have anyone of
significance behind Saquon Barkley on the depth chart, and Barkley himself may not
be around in 2024. So Gray has a shot to appreciate in value from 2023 to 2024 if
things break right.

Strictly as a prospect, though, there just doesn’t seem to be enough upside to
Gray’s profile. And that’s coming from someone who typically would love his 16.8%
best-season reception share and 207-pound frame.

He’ll probably end up going where he should in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              38
Zach Evans
RB • Mississippi Rebels (Los Angeles Rams)

                     36.3%                                           -9.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             202

Statistical Comparables:                           Zamir White
                                                   Jordan Scarlett
                                                   Nick Brossette

Update: The Z-Prospect Model and Zach Evans don’t get along very well. All three
of his production metrics in the model are well below average, and he weighed in
at just 202 pounds at the combine. We just don’t see successful running backs with
that kind of profile very often.

To be fair to Evans, he did play alongside strong talent in college, and he wasn’t
always able to stay healthy. But we can’t make too many excuses here. The fact is,
there’ve been 103 running backs with a stat score as low as his in the model’s
history. And fewer than 6% of those players ended up scoring 10-plus PPR points
per game in one of their first three seasons in the NFL. The only player to do it
more than once was Chris Carson, who had plenty of size on Evans.

Going to the Rams could offer up some rookie-season opportunity for Evans. If he
shows up, Cam Akers is a free agent next year, so Evans could hypothetically walk
into the 2024 season as LA’s starter.

So if you want to take a chance, be my guest. No one is really a bad target if
you’re talking third- or fourth-round rookie selections. And at least Evans has
some explanation as to why he didn’t have better production in college.

He’s got a better path to relevancy than most Day 3 backs, too.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              39
Evan Hull
RB • Northwestern Wildcats (Indianapolis Colts)

                      69.6%                                         +12.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             209

Statistical Comparables:                           John Kelly
                                                   Elijah McGuire
                                                   Brandon Bolden

Update: Before this year’s draft, the model’s database had nine running backs with
a 20% best-season reception share or better. Christian McCaffrey, James White, and
Tony Pollard were all hits, and Rachaad White’s in that group as well. That’s a
pretty solid hit rate when you consider only one of those players — CMC — was a
high-end pick.

Evan Hull is part of that group now.

Hull is a pass-catching back with good size and athleticism. You can see that the
model likes him, but, unfortunately, the landing spot couldn’t be much worse. He
fell to Indianapolis at the end of the fifth round, so he’s going to a team with a
stud running back and a rookie mobile quarterback. Traditional pocket passers are
the ones who usually check down to running backs most, and that’s how Hull would
be maximized for fantasy purposes. He’s not getting that.

Had Hull gone somewhere interesting, he’d be a priority in rookie drafts. Instead,
he’s yet another back from this class who’s tucked behind a star. Taylor’s at
least a free agent next year, so there’s some hope for Hull.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              40
Tyjae Spears
RB • Tulane Green Wave (Tennessee Titans)

                     78.8%                                          -4.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             201

Statistical Comparables:                           Bilal Powell
                                                   Ronnie Hillman
                                                   Jordan Todman

Update: The best non-Power Five running back in this year’s class got selected in
the third round by the Tennessee Titans. He’s not Derrick Henry, but Tyjae Spears
is also not a bad prospect.

His 2022 season was really spectacular, where he ran the ball 229 times for 1,581
yards and 19 touchdowns. He had 256 yards and a couple of scores through the air,
too.

The reason why the Z-Prospect Model doesn’t like Spears more is because efficiency
isn’t what drives the model. Spears had one season with more than 130 carries in
college, and he never hit a 10% reception share in a single season. And he did
this while playing at Tulane. It’s not like he was sharing a backfield with Bijan
Robinson.

There’s optimism that Spears could become the next Aaron Jones — a smaller-school
player who showed off crazy efficiency in college while doing it all in his
backfield. The difference is that Jones had far, far more volume at UTEP than
Spears saw at Tulane. And Jones’ receiving profile was elite.

Tennessee isn’t a bad landing spot, though. Derrick Henry is 29 years old, and the
team’s primary backup, Hassan Haskins, was definitely a worse prospect than
Spears. The model agrees, too.

Given the lack of touches to his profile and his 201-pound frame, it doesn’t seem
likely that Spears is going to dominate looks in the NFL. Could he be a really
good committee back? Absolutely. That’s what we should expect, honestly.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              41
Chase Brown
RB • Illinois Illini (Cincinnati Bengals)

                         59.1%                                     -0.2%
                  Z-Prospect Score                           Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             209

Statistical Comparables:                           Johnathan Franklin
                                                   Lamar Miller
                                                   Jerick McKinnon

Update: Chase Brown once had high projected draft capital, but things slowly got
worse and worse as March and April moved along. He ended up going in Round 5,
giving him a pretty mid prospect score. But he got drafted by Cincinnati, and
that’s mega intriguing.

Brown has some juice. He ran a 4.43 at the NFL Combine, finishing with the fourth-
best Speed Score in this year’s class. His best-season total yards per team play
rate is sixth-best in the class, too.

As the pre-draft guide noted, if you were to point to the worst part of Brown’s
profile, it would be the fact that he was in college for five years. He’s an older
prospect, and that matters at the running back position.

This is probably one of the best Day 3 situations overall, though. Joe Mixon’s had
legal troubles this offseason and could be off the team sooner rather than later.
And behind Mixon is Trayveon Williams and Chris Evans, two players with far less
upside than Brown.

Brown is a good rookie draft target, assuming his cost doesn’t get out of hand.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              42
Kendre Miller
RB • Texas Christian Horned Frogs (New Orleans Saints)

                      83.5%                                              -2.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                                   Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                  5’11”

Weight:                                                                                   215

Statistical Comparables:                                 Stevan Ridley
                                                         Alexander Mattison
                                                         Jonathan Williams

Update: The New Orleans Saints backfield might appear to be crowded — and it
currently is — but that doesn’t mean it will be forever. Alvin Kamara not only is
facing a possible suspension in 2023, but he’s going to be 28 in July. Jamaal
Williams, who they signed this offseason, is already 28.

Kendre Miller, the backfield’s newest member, is one of two backs in this year’s
class who has yet to turn 21.

Miller has the right size to be a bell-cow, but his collegiate receiving profile
was lacking, which is a huge reason he’s got a negative Draft Capital Delta.

His best-season reception share of 6% isn’t what you look for. No back in the
model’s database has had a 16-plus PPR point per game season over their first
three years in the league with a reception share lower than 7%. Only three players
have gotten over 15 PPR points per game, and one of those three was Josh Jacobs,
who had first-round capital.

So the missing receiving production is a problem. Not only do we want to see that
work in a profile to help signal talent, but without pass-catching at the next
level, it’s hard for running backs to be reliable in fantasy football.

The three-down skill-set may not be obvious, but Miller’s at least great on the
ground. In 2022, he avoided tackles at a top-25 rate in college football. His
rushing prowess shouldn’t be questioned.

In the end, if you’re buying into Miller — which is a reasonable thing to do —
you’re hoping that he can develop into a three-down back. Because he’s not quite
there yet. Considering he’s so young, there’s some optimism that he can become
one.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                    43
Kenny McIntosh
RB • Georgia Bulldogs (Seattle Seahawks)

                     23.8%                                         -16.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            204

Statistical Comparables:                           Prince-Tyson Gulley
                                                   Marion Grice
                                                   Tony Pollard

So here’s the deal. The only NFL Combine athleticism measurable that the Z-
Prospect Model cares about at running back is Speed Score, or a weight-adjusted
40-yard dash score.

And it doesn’t even care if it’s really, really high. Running backs just need to
hit a threshold of 90 in order to not get destroyed by the model.

Kenny McIntosh had a Speed Score of 89.6. And it torpedoed his prospect score.

Now, to be fair, that prospect score wasn’t great to begin with. McIntosh has an
impressive receiving profile, having caught 43 passes last year at Georgia. But,
over four years, he tallied just 279 attempts on the ground for the Bulldogs. That
resulted in a poor 1.27 best-season total yards per team play rate.

Had McIntosh performed just slightly better in the 40, his prospect score would be
about 20 percentile spots higher. It made that much of a difference. And that may
seem unfair. But keep in mind that we’ve only had one good season from a player in
the Z-Prospect Model database with a sub-90 Speed Score. And that was Andre
Ellington, who did very little in the league.

Had McIntosh tested better, he would’ve been inching towards Tony Pollard being a
top comparable. (Pollard didn’t test as well as he looks in the NFL.) Since things
went south, his top-two comparables are pretty ugly.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             44
Israel Abanikanda
RB • Pittsburgh Panthers (New York Jets)

                      70.8%                                         +5.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             216

Statistical Comparables:                           Tyler Gaffney
                                                   Isiah Pacheco
                                                   Bernard Pierce

Update: There was hope that Izzy Abanikanda would get drafted on Day 2, but he
ended up getting snatched in the fifth round instead.

To the Jets.

With Breece Hall there, it’s not a great spot for fantasy production. And it’s
unfortunate, because Abanikanda has the goods. He’s a bigger back at 216 pounds,
and he had an impressive Speed Score of 109. He also is the youngest running back
in this year’s class.

In the prospect database, prior to this year’s draft, just seven running backs had
a Speed Score above 105 and a draft-day age under 21. Those backs? Ezekiel
Elliott, Joe Mixon, Derrius Guice, Trent Richardson, Todd Gurley, Breece Hall, and
Cam Akers.

Abanikanda had a chance to be a massive sleeper in this year’s class. Now, at
best, he’s going to slot behind one of the top young talents at the position in
the NFL over the next few years. He can still get some work, and there’s a chance
he sees more than expected in Year 1 given Hall’s ACL recovery. But it’s a pretty
disappointing landing spot when you consider what could’ve been.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              45
DeWayne McBride
RB • Alabama-Birmingham Blazers (Minnesota Vikings)

                     44.3%                                            0.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                                Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                               5’10”

Weight:                                                                                209

Statistical Comparables:                              Kapri Bibbs
                                                      Kennedy Brooks
                                                      Cameron Artis-Payne

Update: One of the better running back landing spots in this year’s draft was
Minnesota, and they decided to take a chance with DeWayne McBride in Round 7. It’s
hard to imagine that this means Dalvin Cook is a goner, but maybe they’re bullish
on the UAB product. Who knows?

What I do know is that McBride has one glaring weakness as a prospect, and that’s
pass-catching ability. He has one of the worst best-season reception shares in the
database at 1.7% after catching just 5 passes in college. It’s safe to say that no
running back in Z-Prospect Model history has done anything significant with that
low of a reception share.

No running back had that low of a share with a best-season total yards per team
play rate above 2.0, though. McBride was ultra-productive on the ground, which is
why he’s still rocking a positive Draft Capital Delta.

It’d be shocking if McBride became a running back who consistently saw a double-
digit percentage target share in the NFL. That’s not his game. But could he maybe
be a Damien Harris-type back for the Vikings? It’s possible.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                 46
Chris Rodriguez
RB • Kentucky Wildcats (Washington Commanders)

                     47.4%                                          -4.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            217

Statistical Comparables:                           Darius Jackson
                                                   Mike Gillislee
                                                   Larry Rountree

Chris Rodriguez has the size, but he lacks the explosiveness and the receiving
chops that we look for in a fantasy football running back. Pro Football Focus did
give him a top-20 rushing grade last season among relevant college football backs,
but he had poor yards per route run rates during his five years at Kentucky.

You’re looking at a two-down plodder, more than likely. That’s not the type of
player we really want to invest in.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             47
Mohamed Ibrahim
RB • Minnesota Golden Gophers (Undrafted)

                     17.8%                                         -18.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            203

Statistical Comparables:                           Darrell Henderson
                                                   Devin Singletary
                                                   Anthony McFarland

Mohamed Ibrahim is just the 28th back in the Z-Prospect Model to measure 5’8’’ or
shorter with a weight of 200-plus pounds. Among that group, he’s one of four with
a best-season total yards per team play rate greater than 2.00. The other three?
Devin Singletary, Darrell Henderson, and Trayveon Williams.

Ibrahim’s production profile could look better on the pass-catching end, but other
than that, it’s pretty incredible. He accounted for nearly 58% of Minnesota’s
touchdowns this past year, giving him the best touchdown share in this year’s
class. His 2.35 total yards per team play rate was second-best, only behind Deuce
Vaughn.

Ibrahim is the third player in the model’s dataset with a best-season touchdown
share of at least 55% to go along with a best-season total yards per team play
rate of 2.30 or better.

As you just read, his receiving profile is a problem. So is the fact that he’s
going to be 25 years old when the NFL’s 2023 season begins. That, honestly, is the
biggest turn off.

But, on paper, we’ve seen some success from this kind of profile.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             48
Roschon Johnson
RB • Texas Longhorns (Chicago Bears)

                     64.5%                                         -10.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            219

Statistical Comparables:                           Chris Evans
                                                   Chris Carson
                                                   Bo Scarbrough

Update: Roschon Johnson’s collegiate production profile sucks because he played
with one of the best running back prospects of the decade. Production correlates
to NFL success, but in this case, we can give him somewhat of a pass.

There are some quality pieces to Johnson’s profile anyway. He had a passable best-
season reception share of 7.5%, and he did that at 219 pounds. We’ve seen some Day
3 hits from bigger-bodied players who had average best-season reception share
marks, including Dameon Pierce from last year’s draft.

Johnson was drafted by Chicago with the 115th overall pick, and it’s not a
terrible spot for a running back to go. The Bears did sign D’Onta Foreman this
offseason to help replace David Montgomery, and Khalil Herbert is there, too. But
Foreman’s on a one-year deal, and Herbert’s now on the third year of his rookie
contract.

Herbert’s been really underrated on the ground over the last couple of seasons. He
was actually fourth in yards after contact per attempt last year. He’s just yet to
break out as an every-down back, so Johnson has a shot to prove himself worthy of
that role.

Expecting this backfield to not be a committee is probably foolish, though.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             49
Keaton Mitchell
RB • East Carolina Pirates (Undrafted)

                       18.0%                                        -18.0%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            179

Statistical Comparables:                           Javian Hawkins
                                                   Trenton Cannon
                                                   Jerrion Ealy

A team looking for a big-play, change-of-pace back might want to take Keaton
Mitchell. He led college football in 10-plus yard runs last season according to
Pro Football Focus, and at the NFL Combine, he ran a 4.37 40.

If you’re dreaming about a former speedy, smaller-framed ECU running back who ran
for 2,000 yards in the NFL, keep dreaming. Chris Johnson was a good bit bigger
than Mitchell, had a better collegiate production, and was faster. You’re not
going to get a huge workload from a 5’8’’, 179-pound back. Especially since his
receiving work wasn’t anything to write home about.

But Mitchell could end up being a depth piece on your dynasty roster for those bye
weeks where you need a one-off ceiling play.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             50
Travis Dye
RB • Southern California Trojans (Undrafted)

                       13.1%                                        -22.9%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             201

Statistical Comparables:                           Akrum Wadley
                                                   Max Borghi
                                                   Elijah McGuire

Travis Dye doesn’t have good projected draft capital. He probably won’t get
drafted at all. But for a player ranked this low, his production profile is kind
of intriguing.

Dye played four seasons at Oregon before spending his final campaign in 2022 at
Southern Cal. So he’s been around for a minute. His best season was in 2021 as a
Duck, where he ran the ball 211 times for 1,271 yards. More importantly, he caught
46 passes that year. His yards per route run rate in 2021 was a top-30 one that
we’ve seen among 20-plus target backs over the last two seasons.

In the model, Dye’s 17.7% best-season reception share is fourth-best in this
class. And his 1.77 total yards per team play rate could be a lot worse for a
potential undrafted player as well.

You probably won’t have to use a rookie pick on Dye, but he’s someone to keep an
eye on.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              51
SaRodorick Thompson
RB • Texas Tech Red Raiders (Undrafted)

                       4.1%                                        -31.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            207

Statistical Comparables:                           Prince-Tyson Gulley
                                                   Gary Brightwell
                                                   Michael Cox

A Speed Score of 87.0 completely drained SaRodorick Thompson’s Z-Prospect Model
score. He wasn’t going to be someone you’d be looking to draft to begin with, but
after running a 4.67 at 207 pounds? Nah.

Thompson had a best-season total yards per team play rate of 1.00. And, let me
tell you, the players who had a sub-90 Speed Score with that low of a total yards
per team play average have been, uh, not great.

You can confidently avoid Thompson in fantasy.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             52
Camerun Peoples
RB • Appalachian State Mountaineers (Undrafted)

                      11.4%                                       -24.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            217

Statistical Comparables:                           Javon Leake
                                                   Matt Jones
                                                   Justin Davis

Appalachian State has a good football program, but it’s not Alabama. It’s not
Georgia or Ohio State.

The fact that Cam Peoples had a sub-3% best-season reception share during his five
seasons there is telling. As is his low 1.35 best-season total yards per team play
rate.

He’s got good size, but he’ll likely be, at best, a backup early-down runner in
the NFL.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             53
Tavion Thomas
RB • Utah Utes (Undrafted)

                      25.5%                                         -10.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            237

Statistical Comparables:                           Kamryn Pettway
                                                   Matthew Tucker
                                                   Synjyn Days

The biggest dude in this year’s running back class is Tavion Thomas out of Utah.
He weighed in at 237 pounds at the NFL Combine, and he ended up running a 4.74 40-
yard dash. That may seem slow — and it’s not fast — but his weight-adjusted 40
time was fine.

Thomas wasn’t much of a pass-catcher in college. That’s not uncommon for a back
who’s heavier than 230 pounds. In the Z-Prospect Model’s database, the majority of
the heavy backs had top-season reception shares in the single digits. But that
forced the rest of his production profile to look insanely meh.

Maybe a team falls in love with Thomas’ size? That’s the only thing that’s really
working in his favor analytically.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             54
Tiyon Evans
RB • Louisville Cardinals (Undrafted)

                       19.2%                                        -16.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             225

Statistical Comparables:                           Snoop Conner
                                                   Jonas Gray
                                                   Allen Bradford

When you’re this deep into the prospect model, you’re not going to find running
backs who were big producers in college. You might find some athletes, though, and
that’s what we’ve got in Tiyon Evans.

Evans is a bigger-bodied back with the highest BMI in this year’s class. He ended
up running a 4.52 40-yard dash at the combine, and at that size, that gave him a
pretty good Speed Score of 107.8. Anything over 100 is considered strong.

So, no, the production isn’t there at all for Evans. But what if an NFL team can
work with his athleticism? That’s at least more intriguing than some of the other
lower-tiered backs in this class.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              55
Deneric Prince
RB • Tulsa Golden Hurricane (Undrafted)

                       11.9%                                       -24.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            216

Statistical Comparables:                           Keith Marshall
                                                   Christine Michael
                                                   Bryce Brown

Deneric Prince is the last running back to spotlight, and he’s almost looking like
a better version of the aforementioned Tiyon Evans.

Evans is a little bigger, but Prince was the one who beat all running backs in
Speed Score this year at the combine. At 216 pounds, he ran a 4.41 40.

Prince profiles similarly to previous athletic busts in fantasy football. Remember
Christine Michael? His production profile was horrible, but fantasy managers
latched onto him because of his draft capital, size, and athleticism.

Don’t worry: Prince won’t get selected high, so you won’t have any urge to overpay
for him in your rookie draft. Unless he falls to the perfect spot, you likely
won’t have to draft him at all.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             56
Wide Receiver

Jaxon Smith-Njigba
WR • Ohio State Buckeyes (Seattle Seahawks)

                     95.8%                                         +0.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            196

Statistical Comparables:                           JuJu Smith-Schuster
                                                   Ja’Marr Chase
                                                   Garrett Wilson

Update: Pre-draft, Jaxon Smith-Njigba was projected to go around 12th overall. He
fell to 20th, and he landed in a spot — Seattle — where he may struggle to put up
top-end production right away.

This is dynasty, though. We’re more concerned about his entire career — at least
the first three years of his career — versus his rookie season. And while Tyler
Lockett and DK Metcalf are there to share the goods, Lockett’s going to be 31
years old this season, and he’s a potential cut candidate in 2024.

Smith-Njigba ran 89% of his routes from the slot during his monster Sophomore
season at Ohio State, and playing alongside DK Metcalf will allow JSN to continue
to see a lot of snaps there for the Seahawks. And, in Year 1, we could see him run
the majority of his routes from that area of the field given Tyler Lockett’s still
under contract.

It’s not the best location for Smith-Njigba imaginable, especially since he’ll be
competing with more than one high-end wide receiver for targets as a rookie. But
it wouldn’t be surprising if fantasy managers factor in this destination more than
they should. There’s an outcome here where, eventually, JSN is seeing more work in
this offense than Metcalf. The targets won’t be as quality for fantasy purposes,
but JSN can still be a PPR machine in a Keenan Allen-type role.

The shift in draft capital moved Smith-Njigba from a 97th percentile prospect to a
95th, 96th percentile one. It would’ve been nice for him to go a couple of spots
higher, but he’s still in good shape to be a nice fantasy contributor, most likely
during his second or third year in the league.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             57
Jordan Addison
WR • Southern California Trojans (Minnesota Vikings)

                      94.2%                                            +0.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                                 Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                5’11”

Weight:                                                                                 173

Statistical Comparables:                               Calvin Ridley
                                                       Jahan Dotson
                                                       TY Hilton

Update: The Jordan Addison-Minnesota Vikings pair is perfect. He’s not likely to
be an alpha wideout in the NFL, but playing alongside Justin Jefferson means he
won’t have to be.

Prior to transferring to USC in 2022, Addison spent two years at Pitt (Hail 2
Pitt), and one of those seasons resulted in a Biletnikoff award. That year, he ran
68% of his routes from the slot, per Pro Football Focus, while catching passes
from Kenny Pickett. His production then dipped last year as a Trojan, where USC
put him in the slot on just 23% of his routes.

We should assume that Minnesota knows all of this, and they won’t unintelligently
use him as only a perimeter guy. But without Adam Thielen in the mix, Addison
should be able to get reps both on the outside and the inside as the team’s
number-two wide receiver option while seeing easier coverage.

Keep in mind, too, that last year, during Kevin O’Connell’s first season with the
team, the Vikings ranked fourth in neutral script pass rate. So Addison will be
the second option on what’ll likely be a pass-heavy team.

When looking at 2023 projections, it’s clear that Addison could perform best among
any wide receiver in this class. It doesn’t mean he’s the top wideout from the
group, but it does bode well for his Year 1 to Year 2 appreciation in the dynasty
market. It’s almost like a beefed up Jahan Dotson situation from last year.

If you’re looking for a pretty safe bet at wide receiver, Addison’s your guy.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                  58
Quentin Johnston
WR • Texas Christian Horned Frogs (Los Angeles Chargers)

                     93.4%                                                    -1.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                                     Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                    6’3”

Weight:                                                                                    208

Statistical Comparables:                                   Tee Higgins
                                                           Alec Pierce
                                                           Breshad Perriman

Update: There’s a lot of volatility to Quentin Johnston’s analytical profile, but
at least the landing spot is secure. He’ll join two aged wideouts in Keenan Allen
(will be 31 during the 2023 season) and Mike Williams (29), opening a path to
opportunity in this Justin Herbert-led offense.

The biggest issue with Johnston is that he’s a physically gifted wide receiver who
tends to play a little small. In 2022, per Pro Football Focus, Johnston ranked in
the 27th percentile in contested catch rate. He was able to stretch the field at
TCU, at least, with high average depth of targets (aDOT) during all three
collegiate seasons. And he has a rare blend of high aDOTs and strong yards after
the catch numbers.

His best-season yards per team pass attempt of 2.35 is merely average, but had he
stayed healthy during his Freshman and Sophomore seasons, he had a chance to hit
the 2.00 mark within that metric during all three collegiate seasons. That
consistency is something we don’t often see, and it’s definitely not something
we’ve seen from previous first-round busts out of Texas Christian in Josh Doctson
and Jalen Reagor. He looks like a better prospect than they were.

Drafting Johnston depends on your risk tolerance. You could certainly argue that,
with this draft capital and with this landing spot, he has just as high of a
fantasy football ceiling as any other wideout in this draft. The bust potential is
just higher than someone like Jaxon Smith-Njigba or Jordan Addison. That’s clear
when you peep his comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                     59
Josh Downs
WR • North Carolina Tar Heels (Indianapolis Colts)

                      86.7%                                          +8.5%
                 Z-Prospect Score                              Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                              5’9”

Weight:                                                                              171

Statistical Comparables:                             Elijah Moore
                                                     Tyler Lockett
                                                     Wan’Dale Robinson

Update: The Colts got a steal with Josh Downs. At least, that’s what the Z-
Prospect Model thinks.

Downs has the highest best-season yards per team pass attempt rate in this class
at 3.52. And now that he got Round 3 draft capital, he joins Tyler Lockett as the
only third-round wide receiver since 2011 to have a best-season yards per team
pass attempt rate above 3.50 and a Breakout Age earlier than 20 years old.

Tyler Lockett is one of Josh Downs’ comps.

Lockett’s been able to show off his ability and be more than a slot guy in the
NFL, and we’re going to need to see that from Downs, since he ran 83%, 95%, and
87% of his routes from the slot at North Carolina.

Even if he can’t be more than a slot player, though, he can still be productive.

Hopefully.

Indianapolis isn’t the best destination in the world for Downs. They drafted
Anthony Richardson, so Downs is on Richardson’s developmental timeline. He didn’t
fall to a spot with some secure quarterback who’s in desperate need of a slot
receiver.

But we’ve got to trust the process here. Downs’ prospect score is strong, and he
should be able to start as the Colts’ main slot wideout immediately. He’s just got
to beat Isaiah McKenzie.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                               60
Jalin Hyatt
WR • Tennessee Volunteers (New York Giants)

                     83.9%                                            +4.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            176

Statistical Comparables:                           Nelson Agholor
                                                   Jameson Williams
                                                   Calvin Ridley

Update: Jalin Hyatt fell a lot further in the draft than most expected, but now
that he’s a third-rounder, it’s easier to be bullish on him versus expectation.

Hyatt’s analytical profile is kind of all over the place. He saw very little
production during his first two seasons at Tennessee, and then he blew up in 2022,
winning the Biletnikoff Award. That gave him a later-ish Breakout Age, but the
best-season production is fantastic.

Hyatt’s more than likely going to be asked to play the perimeter in the NFL in
order to stretch defenses vertically with his speed. Considering the Giants — his
new team — have about seven slot receivers currently rostered, that seems even
more likely.

The problem is that Hyatt played over 87% of his snaps from the slot last season.
It was a weird role in the Tennessee offense, but it was one that allowed Hyatt to
get free pretty easily and generate a ton of production.

This isn’t to say that he’s bad. It’s more so to say that there are a lot of
question marks. That’s why it’s easier to buy into him now as opposed to him being
an early second-round pick.

And if you want some optimism, among wide receivers drafted between Picks 65 and
100 (roughly Round 3) from 2011 to 2020 who had a best-season yards per team pass
attempt rate of 3.00 or greater (Hyatt’s part of this subset), 26.7% were able to
post a 15-plus PPR point per game season during one of their first three campaigns
in the league. The alternative group — guys with a yards per team pass attempt
rate below 3.00 — was at 11.8%.

Because the model’s comparables loosely factor in draft capital, the players
listed for Hyatt are better than they probably should be. But he still has
potential to be a fantasy contributor in an offense that lacks high-end weapons.
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             61
Zay Flowers
WR • Boston College Golden Eagles (Baltimore Ravens)

                     92.9%                                               -1.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                                 Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                5’9”

Weight:                                                                                182

Statistical Comparables:                               Phillip Dorsett
                                                       Randall Cobb
                                                       Markus Wheaton

Update: Zay Flowers’ comps are rough, and it’s because he’s a non-early-declare
wide receiver who had good-not-great collegiate production. But when you dig a
little deeper, you start to uncover things that point to him being a really good
player.

Flowers, despite his size, largely played a perimeter role in college. His slot
rate in 2022 was just 33%, and it was 26% the year prior. So we have evidence that
he can play all over the formation despite his size.

His top-season yards per team pass attempt of 2.45 isn’t special, but he hit a
2.25 rate in each of his final three seasons at Boston College. Among Power Five
wideouts in this year’s class, he’s the only one to have done that.

Flowers is now paired up with Lamar Jackson in Baltimore. Historically, that
hasn’t been a great match for a wide receiver — the Ravens have had a pass rate
above 50% just once over their last four seasons.

But there’s some hope that the team becomes a little more pass-friendly under
offensive coordinator Todd Monken, who’s never led an NFL offense below a 56% pass
rate. And Baltimore’s made moves this offseason to suggest they want to throw the
ball a little more.

The competition is there in Baltimore, to be clear. Rashod Bateman hasn’t been
able to stay healthy, but he was studly in the yards per route run department
during his limited time last year. Mark Andrews is always going to command a high
target share. And maybe Odell Beckham has a little left in the tank.

On the flip side, what if Bateman can’t stay healthy? What if Beckham is washed?
All of a sudden, Zay Flowers becomes the number-two option in this new-look
offense. That’s why he’s still a fine enough rookie pick. The talent is there.


Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                 62
Kayshon Boutte
WR • Louisiana State Tigers (New England Patriots)

                      70.7%                                         +18.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                               Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                              5’11”

Weight:                                                                               195

Statistical Comparables:                             Amon-Ra St. Brown
                                                     Antonio Callaway
                                                     Kenny Stills

Update: This may be a little galaxy brained, but Kayshon Boutte going to New
England might be the best thing possible from a fantasy perspective. His rookie
draft cost has been slipping since his awful showing at the combine, and now he’s
a Day 3 pick, going to a team that’s struggled mightily with wide receiver
evaluation in the past.

You think fantasy football managers are going to want to buy into this?

If Boutte becomes a last-round dart throw, he’s the perfect target. Some have
questioned his motivation, but now he’s playing for Bill Belichick, a coach who’s
not going to put up with lazy route running.

And, I mean, objectively, Boutte’s profile isn’t horrible. He broke out as a
Freshman with a 1.75 yards per team pass attempt rate, battled through injury as a
Sophomore, and he just couldn’t get back to form as a Junior. His Breakout Age and
early-declare status is a fairly rare combination for a Day 3 pick. Since 2011,
just eight early-declare wide receivers — Boutte included — drafted after Pick 100
had a Breakout Age before 19 and a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate
above 1.70. Two of those players were Stefon Diggs and Amon-Ra St. Brown.

There’s a ton — a ton — of red flags surrounding Boutte. You shouldn’t be giving
up a top-two round rookie pick to acquire him in any format.

With that being said, he’s someone to keep an eye on.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                63
Parker Washington
WR • Penn State Nittany Lions (Jacksonville Jaguars)

                      67.2%                                              +14.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                                 Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                5’10”

Weight:                                                                                 204

Statistical Comparables:                               Amari Rodgers
                                                       Parris Campbell
                                                       Dwayne Harris

Update: Parker Washington’s prospect score makes him look better than he probably
is. He’s built more like a running back than a wide receiver, and he largely
played the slot during his three seasons at Penn State. Even after Jahan Dotson
left for the NFL last year, Washington ran over 71% of his routes from the slot.

Washington’s production was never elite, but it was good enough to give him a
strong Breakout Age. That, combined with his early-declare status, is why his
prospect score looks as good as it does.

There’s very little chance he’s a high-volume player on Jacksonville in 2023 with
Christian Kirk, Calvin Ridley, and Zay Jones in the mix. Kirk is the player that
Washington should be most concerned about, since he ran over 75% of his routes
from the slot last season. His contract goes through 2025, but the Jags seem to
have a potential out in 2024. That just doesn’t seem probable.

All this means is that Washington is a stash more than anything. You’re hoping the
Jacksonville wide receiver room gets a shakeup after 2023, but even then, we can’t
bank on Washington being the dude they’d want to utilize in the slot consistently.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                  64
Rashee Rice
WR • Southern Methodist Mustangs (Kansas City Chiefs)

                     78.1%                                             -6.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                                  Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                 6’1”

Weight:                                                                                 204

Statistical Comparables:                                Cecil Shorts
                                                        Mohamed Sanu
                                                        Geremy Davis

Update: You have to imagine Rashee Rice got a lot pricier in rookie drafts when he
was selected by the Chiefs in the second round.

The Z-Prospect Model isn’t super excited.

Now, to be fair, the model doesn’t have some Patrick Mahomes input. But we’ve
learned to not ignore the prospect himself just because he’s playing with the
greatest young quarterback of all time. Right?

Right?

Rice has good size, and his stat score is a top-10 one in this year’s class. The
problem is that he didn’t have the best Breakout Age, he’s already 23 years old,
and he didn’t face the toughest competition in college. Even though he played four
seasons in the American Athletic Conference, he hit a 2.00 yards per team pass
attempt rate just once.

He’s not a bad prospect, but he’s not someone with incredible odds to hit, either.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                  65
Jayden Reed
WR • Michigan State Spartans (Green Bay Packers)

                     83.4%                                         -3.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             187

Statistical Comparables:                           Cam Phillips
                                                   Stefon Diggs
                                                   Tylan Wallace

Update: My favorite wide receiver sleeper in this year’s draft is a sleeper no
more. With the 50th overall pick, the Green Bay Packers selected Jayden Reed out
of Michigan State.

If you recall, Reed played his Freshman season at Western Michigan before
transferring to Michigan State. He broke out as a Freshman, outperforming future
second-rounder Dee Eskridge, who was a Junior.

Skyy Moore got to Western Michigan the following year — Reed had transferred at
this point — and ended up with a worse Freshman season yards per team pass attempt
rate compared to Reed’s.

It’s fitting that Reed was drafted in the second round, too.

Reed played all over the field when he got to Michigan State, and he got work as a
returner as well. His production profile doesn’t look elite in the Z-Prospect
Model, per se, but the production is definitely there.

And that Breakout Age is clutch, too. From 2011 to 2020, 51 wideouts were drafted
in the Pick 32 to 100 range with a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate
above 2.50. Of those 51, just 8 broke out in college before turning 19 years old.
So 43 of them had Breakout Ages of 19 or older.

Among the group with elite Breakout Ages, 5 (62.5%) were able to give fantasy
managers a season of 14 or more PPR points per game in one of their first three
years in the league. The alternate group made that happen at a 23.2% rate.

Reed shouldn’t have trouble seeing some action as a rookie for the Packers. And
while Christian Watson and Romeo Doubs are good players — especially Watson —
there’s a non-zero chance Reed eventually is the main target hog in this offense.


Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              66
Marvin Mims
WR • Oklahoma Sooners (Denver Broncos)

                     82.2%                                        +0.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             183

Statistical Comparables:                           KJ Hamler
                                                   Isaiah Ford
                                                   Jerry Jeudy

Update: I’ll say it again: From 2011 to 2020, 51 wideouts were drafted in the Pick
32 to 100 range with a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate above 2.50. Of
those 51, just 8 broke out in college before turning 19 years old. So 43 of them
had Breakout Ages of 19 or older.

Among the group with elite Breakout Ages, 5 (62.5%) were able to give fantasy
managers a season of 14 or more PPR points per game in one of their first three
years in the league. The alternate group made that happen at a 23.2% rate.

Marvin Mims was drafted in the second round by the Denver Broncos, and his
breakout happened before he turned 19.

Mims is an easy prospect to like. He’s a big play waiting to happen after seeing
average depth of targets of 17.0, 17.6, and 15.4 during his three collegiate
seasons. He did that while running his routes all over the field — despite his
size, he wasn’t locked into the slot.

If there’s something negative about Mims’ profile to point out, it’s that even
though he technically broke out early, he wasn’t overly productive until his final
season at Oklahoma. He was fortunate to get to the right thresholds in order to
produce that Freshman breakout. But it happened, and he’s an early-declare wideout
in a class that doesn’t have a ton of them.

Funny enough, two of Mims’ three comparables are current Denver Broncos. The
difference is that he’s the only one who was drafted by this Sean Payton regime.
Even if we can’t currently see a super clear path to relevancy, in dynasty, you
want to target good players in your rookie draft. And Mims is a good player.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              67
Nathaniel Dell
WR • Houston Cougars (Houston Texans)

                     76.8%                                         -3.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            165

Statistical Comparables:                           Scotty Miller
                                                   Jaelon Darden
                                                   Wan’Dale Robinson

Update: Nathaniel “Tank” Dell goes from Houston to…Houston. The Texans snagged the
small wideout in the third round, and Dell officially became just the fourth
sub-170-pound wide receiver drafted in the top-100 since 2011. The other three?
Marquise Brown (166 pounds), Devonta Smith (166), and Tutu Atwell (153).

The obvious difference between Dell and players like Marquise Brown and Devonta
Smith is draft capital. And that’s what makes him a very difficult prospect to
project.

On the plus side, Dell has the second-best stat score within this draft class,
trailing only Josh Downs. On the minus side, he didn’t have a super strong
Breakout Age, and he’s entering the NFL at 23-and-a-half years old. He played at
Houston for three seasons, but he started his college journey at Alabama A&M and a
community college.

It’s hard to imagine Dell as a high-volume perimeter receiver. He ran more than
half of his routes from the slot during his two highly productive seasons at
Houston, and while he can separate — especially deep — his size will likely force
him to the slot a good bit.

He could play that role for the Texans right away, at least.

Dell’s a solid player, but he may lack the upside we want from a fantasy
contributor. It’s very possible he ends up being a better real-life player than
fantasy one.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             68
Cedric Tillman
WR • Tennessee Volunteers (Cleveland Browns)

                     75.6%                                         -3.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            213

Statistical Comparables:                           Cobi Hamilton
                                                   Kevin White
                                                   Nick Toon

Update: The Z-Prospect Model isn’t the biggest Cedric Tillman fan. He’s got great
size at 6’3’’, 213 pounds, but his Breakout Age is one of the worst in the class
among players who broke out, and he’s entering the league at 23 years old.

Tillman had an impressive Junior season with Tennessee, and he hit a 2.89 yards
per team pass attempt rate while playing alongside two NFLers in Velus Jones and
Jalin Hyatt. Had he come out after that season, the model would’ve looked at him
more favorably.

The Browns were the team who grabbed Tillman in the third, and they likely did so
knowing that Donovan Peoples-Jones is set to become a free agent in 2024. With
DPJ, Amari Cooper, and Elijah Moore already on the roster, there’s some chance
Tillman doesn’t get a ton of run during his rookie season. But if he learns the
system and the Browns feel good about his development, then they may feel as
though Peoples-Jones is expendable.

That’s sort of the problem for Tillman. It’d be one thing to wait it out with a
raw prospect who was 21 years old, but he’s an older player entering the league.
By the time he gets going — if it happens — he could be 25 or 26. That’s a harder
thing to bank on in dynasty.

Of course, he could always surprise and just beat out a player like Peoples-Jones
this year. It just doesn’t seem like the most likely outcome.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             69
Trey Palmer
WR • Nebraska Cornhuskers (Tampa Bay Buccaneers)

                     59.5%                                            +8.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            192

Statistical Comparables:                           AJ Jenkins
                                                   Jared Abbrederis
                                                   Malcolm Mitchell

There’s only one wide receiver in this year’s draft class with a best-season yards
per team pass attempt rate of 3.00 or better to go along with a best-season
touchdown share mark above 50%. And his name is Trey Palmer.

Historically, drafted wide receivers who’ve hit those marks have done pretty well.
There’ve been 21 of them since 2011, and 10 of those 21 were able to get to a
double-digit PPR points per game season in one of their first three in the league.

The problem with Palmer’s numbers is that he did very little across the first
three years of his college career. He was at LSU during that time, and he only
caught 41 passes as a Tiger. To be fair to Palmer, though, those LSU teams did
have some great wide receiving talent.

Palmer made the most of his opportunity in 2022, at least, but the late-career
production gave him a poor Breakout Age, which is lowering his overall score in
the model. As is the fact that he’s not projected to be a Day 2 pick at the
moment.

Palmer’s capable of creating big plays down the field with his speed, but you have
to wonder if there’s going to be more that he can offer for fantasy managers at
the next level.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             70
Xavier Hutchinson
WR • Iowa State Cyclones (Houston Texans)

                     50.3%                                          +2.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            203

Statistical Comparables:                           DeVante Parker
                                                   Denzel Mims
                                                   Devin Street

Biletnikoff Award finalists are typically going to have strong production
profiles. And Xavier Hutchinson, a finalist last season, caught 107 passes for
1,171 yards and 6 scores in 2022.

Those numbers look good on paper, but they’re not as impressive as you’d think.
Hutchinson is fine in the Z-Prospect Model on the production end, but his yards
per team pass attempt and touchdown share marks were ordinary. That’s because his
average depth of target rates throughout college were below 10 yards, per Pro
Football Focus. He was seeing a ton of easy looks in the Iowa State offense,
getting targeted closer to the line of scrimmage. There are definite question
marks around his ability to separate down the field.

It’s good that he was targeted at a high rate, but this is why receptions per game
works with yards per team pass attempt. Hutchinson was good, but he wasn’t great.

His collegiate journey wasn’t super clean, either. He started off at Blinn College
— a place we’ve definitely all heard of before — before transferring to Iowa
State. He then played three years as a Cyclone and was productive each year.

Hutchinson enters the NFL Draft as an older player — he’ll be almost 23 — but his
Breakout Age was OK. So while the age concerns are valid, they’re probably easy to
overstate. The bigger deal is draft capital, since there’s a chance he falls
outside the top-100.

The optimistic side to Hutchinson is that he can play anywhere, and he’s seemingly
gotten better each year. There are worse darts to throw in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             71
AT Perry
WR • Wake Forest Demon Deacons (New Orleans Saints)

                     53.5%                                             +3.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                                Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                               6’4”

Weight:                                                                               198

Statistical Comparables:                              Kris Durham
                                                      Derek Moye
                                                      Alonzo Russell

AT Perry is 6’4’’, but it doesn’t really matter.

Age-adjusted production is what’s key, and Perry doesn’t exactly have it. His best
seasons in yards per team pass attempt and touchdown share are below average, and
he broke out late in college. He redshirted his Freshman year, and it took him
three seasons at Wake Forest to post substantial production. He enters the draft
well over 23 years of age, too, having turned 23 in October of 2022.

In the Z-Prospect Model database, there’ve been 18 wide receivers with the
following criteria: non-early declare status, a Breakout Age above 21, a best-
season yards per team pass attempt below 2.5, and a height of 6’4’’ or taller.

Are those random parameters? Sort of. We’re really just looking at lengthy dudes
who didn’t have great age-adjusted production.

Of those 18, Chase Claypool was the only one who gave fantasy managers 10-plus PPR
points per game in one of his first three seasons. And not only did Claypool’s
production profile look better than Perry’s does, but he also had 40 pounds on
him.

This type of profile — AT Perry’s profile — is volatile. Could the height
translate? Of course. Is it something you should bank on? Probably not. At least
not in the early rounds of your rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                72
Rakim Jarrett
WR • Maryland Terrapins (Undrafted)

                     34.9%                                            0.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            192

Statistical Comparables:                           Antonio Callaway
                                                   Kenny Lawler
                                                   Cody Core

There are almost 100 wide receivers in the Z-Prospect Model with a best-season
receptions per game rate below 5.0, a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate
below 2.0, and a best-season touchdown share below 25%.

Only one of them scored more than 16 PPR points per game in one of their first
three seasons in the league. That was Tyreek Hill. And only four — add Terry
McLaurin, Hunter Renfrow, and Jaylen Waddle to the list — scored more than 12.5.

For Rakim Jarrett to be a solid fantasy option through 2025, he’ll kind of need to
be an outlier. His stat score is in the bottom-15 in this year’s draft class, and
there really have only been three or four hits within the model from a player with
such a low score.

If you want to look at things optimistically — and the model actually doesn’t mind
Jarrett versus where he’s projected to be drafted because of this — Jarrett does
have an OK Breakout Age. And he’s an early-declare receiver. And he was a five-
star recruit coming out of high school. And he wasn’t the only Maryland wide
receiver at the combine this year, so there was at least decent competition for
him in college.

Nevertheless, we’re inching towards praying-hands-emoji territory of the prospect
guide.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             73
Dontayvion Wicks
WR• Virginia Cavaliers (Green Bay Packers)

                     52.6%                                        -7.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            203

Statistical Comparables:                           Mike Woods
                                                   Kevin Austin
                                                   Corey Fuller

Dontayvion Wicks missed his Sophomore year with an injury sustained before the
season started, but he bounced back in a big way the following year, posting the
ninth-highest yards per route run rate in college football among 50-plus target
wide receivers.

That 2021 campaign was by far his best, but within the Z-Prospect Model, it’s not
looking special: All three of his production metrics clocked in below average.

It’s pretty rare for a player to become something in fantasy football with below-
average marks across the board. Just six players in the model’s database have
gotten to 15-plus PPR points per game during their first three years in the league
while having under-the-norm marks in receptions per game, yards per team pass
attempt, and touchdown share.

Two of the players who beat the odds were Martavis Bryant and DK Metcalf. They
both tested as athletic freaks, something we didn’t get from Wicks at the combine.
So it’s not looking likely that Wicks is going to be an every-week starter in your
fantasy lineup on Sundays.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             74
Charlie Jones
WR • Purdue Boilermakers (Cincinnati Bengals)

                     53.9%                                        -11.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             175

Statistical Comparables:                           Clyde Gates
                                                   Titus Young
                                                   Quez Watkins

Update: It’s easy to poke fun at Charlie Jones’ profile. He started his collegiate
career all the way back in 2018 with Buffalo before transferring to Iowa. Because
of the NCAA’s transfer rules, he sat out the 2019 season before getting a shot
with the Hawkeyes in 2020. He spent two years there without much production before
moving to Purdue, where he played his final season.

And that final season was pretty good. He caught 110 passes for 1,361 yards,
resulting in a yards per team pass attempt of 2.33.

With all that movement, Jones is unsurprisingly one of the oldest wide receivers
in this class at 24 and a half. In the Z-Prospect Model’s database, the only
moderate hit from a player who entered the league at 24 is John Brown.

That doesn’t mean Jones is an avoid in rookie drafts. Chances are, your
leaguemates aren’t going to care much for a wideout who’s been able to legally
purchase alcohol for almost four years. He’s not going to be costly. And there are
still pieces to his profile to like. He can line up all over the field, and he has
better speed than most would assume.

The Bengals — the team that drafted him — have both Tyler Boyd and Tee Higgins
sitting on the final years of their respective contracts. There could be openings
in a Joe Burrow-led offense in 2024. So stashing Jones with a last-round pick
isn’t a bad idea. It’s not like other late-round darts have high odds to work out
anyway.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              75
Tyler Scott
WR • Cincinnati Bearcats (Chicago Bears)

                      65.1%                                         +1.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             177

Statistical Comparables:                           John Metchie
                                                   Darius Johnson
                                                   KJ Hamler

Update: It was odd to see Tyler Scott get picked 33 spots after his Cincinnati
teammate, Tre Tucker, but the Bears got a good one at the tail-end of the fourth
round of this year’s draft.

Scott had a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate of only 2.17, but he hit
a max-season touchdown share of almost 41%, one of the better marks in the class.
He’s got great speed to stretch the field and profiles best, given his size, as a
vertical slot threat in the NFL.

This is similar to a nugget mentioned with Kayshon Boutte, but since 2011, we’ve
seen just eight other early-declare wide receivers get selected between Picks 100
and 150 (Scott was the 133rd overall pick) with a best-season touchdown share
above 35%. Two of those eight receivers were Stefon Diggs and Amon-Ra St. Brown.

Darnell Mooney and Chase Claypool are both set to be free agents in 2024, so there
could be an opening in that offense next season. And maybe Scott works his way
into some playing time this year, too. He’s a pretty good later-round option in
rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              76
Jadon Haselwood
WR • Arkansas Razorbacks (Undrafted)

                      11.7%                                         -23.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            215

Statistical Comparables:                           Greg Childs
                                                   Javon McKinley
                                                   Vince Mayle

Jadon Haselwood is a former five-star recruit with good size, but there’s not much
working in his favor analytically.

All three of his production metrics in the Z-Prospect Model came in below average,
and his sub-2.00 receiving yards per team pass attempt and sub-20% touchdown share
put him in pretty weak company. Just 4% of wide receivers in the model’s database
have given us a WR2 season or better within the first three years of their NFL
career with those marks.

Haselwood’s only productive season came as a Senior at Arkansas, which followed
three years at Oklahoma. During that season, he ran 81% of his routes from the
slot. The fact that we didn’t see him win as much on the perimeter could limit his
upside at the next level, too.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             77
Andrei Iosivas
WR • Princeton Tigers (Cincinnati Bengals)

                      45.0%                                         -2.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            205

Statistical Comparables:                           Tyre Brady
                                                   Jazz Ferguson
                                                   Kenny Golladay

Update: As you probably read with Charlie Jones, the Cincinnati Bengals are going
to be facing some decisions at wide receiver after the 2023 season. Both Tyler
Boyd and Tee Higgins are free agents, so they likely loaded up on a couple of
late-round wideouts in this draft to see if they could get lucky.

Andrei Iosivas was one of them. He’s a smaller-school player with a great
production profile, but that’s to be expected when you’re an NFL-caliber wideout
playing at Princeton. He mostly played on the perimeter there, and at 6’3’’, 205
pounds, the Bengals are probably seeing him more in a role opposite of Ja’Marr
Chase, too. That is, if he can prove himself worthy of getting any playing time.

I’m not sure that’s going to happen. Small-school players don’t often hit at wide
receiver, and Iosivas is an older prospect, entering the league at 23-and-a-half.

If you’ve got a deep enough rookie draft, you can stash him and see what happens.
There’s no need to prioritize him late.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             78
Jonathan Mingo
WR • Mississippi Rebels (Carolina Panthers)

                     84.2%                                         -5.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            220

Statistical Comparables:                           Gary Jennings
                                                   Jaylen Smith
                                                   Juron Criner

Update: When this prospect guide initially launched, Jonathan Mingo was projected
to go 170th overall in this year’s draft. And then he went 39th to the Carolina
Panthers.

The comparables you see are generated with draft capital in mind — somewhat, at
least — so Mingo didn’t get the benefit of having a pretty pre-draft profile.
Post-draft? We should be paying a whole lot more attention.

Mingo’s analytical profile is nothing special. He’s not an early-declare pass-
catcher, and his top season in yards per team pass attempt was just 2.22. That was
by far his best year within the statistic.

Part of the reason for that, however, was because he wasn’t able to stay healthy
until his Senior season. He played with some decent wide receiver talent in Elijah
Moore, Braylon Sanders, and Dontario Drummond, too.

When you match all of that with poor draft capital, it’s a tough sell. But a
second-round selection? Now we’re talking.

The biggest reason Mingo rose in the draft — more than likely — is his size. He’s
220 pounds, giving him the fourth-highest BMI in this class. And it’s a class that
doesn’t have a lot of big-bodied players.

Reception Perception’s Matt Harmon thinks Mingo, despite maxing out at a 35% slot
rate in college, could end up using his strong route-running as a big slot in the
NFL. Carolina doesn’t have any locked-in long-term receiver options, so it’s nice
that Mingo can work with them to find a role that’s best suited for his skill-set.

Mingo isn’t someone the fantasy community likes given his poor analytical profile.
But that’s why we use draft capital. Even with a bad Draft Capital Delta and poor
production, he could be a value in your rookie drafts this year.
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             79
Dontay Demus
WR • Maryland Terrapins (Undrafted)

                     20.9%                                           -14.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            212

Statistical Comparables:                           Emmanuel Butler
                                                   Denzel Mims
                                                   Malachi Dupre

The Z-Prospect Model is far from flawless, and one of the issues that it’s very
rarely run into over the last couple of seasons has to do with the dreaded COVID
year.

Back in 2020, most teams just played a handful of games. That leads to smaller
sample sizes, and with smaller sample sizes comes the potential for whackier
numbers.

That’s what we’re getting with Dontay Demus. His collegiate profile is objectively
average compared to other NFL-hungry wide receivers. He played at Maryland for
five years, and he failed to reach 650 yards in any of those seasons. It’s just
that, in 2020, Demus saw a large chunk of Maryland’s offense…during a five-game
season. So his numbers look better than they probably should.

This is the context that’s always necessary to have, and why these profiles are
helpful. Demus looks OK in the model, and he’s got some decent analytical
qualities, like a good Breakout Age and solid size. But he may be slightly
overvalued by the model because of that COVID season.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             80
Demario Douglas
WR • Liberty Flames (New England Patriots)

                     42.9%                                         -2.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’8”

Weight:                                                                            179

Statistical Comparables:                           Calvin Austin
                                                   Ryan Switzer
                                                   Jakeem Grant

The last time we saw a wide receiver from Liberty get NFL Draft love was in 2020
with Antonio Gandy-Golden. He was selected in the fourth round by Washington, and
he proceeded to catch a grand total of one pass in the NFL before retiring in
2022.

Smaller-school wide receivers are always a risk. It could be that Gandy-Golden
just didn’t care much for football — a totally rational thing to feel — but Power
Five wide receivers are generally better bets than the pass-catchers from smaller
programs.

That’s one of the things that makes Demario Douglas a tough player to bet on for
fantasy production. He also had worse marks across the board compared to Gandy-
Golden, and he’s a little wide receiver, standing at 5’8’’.

Since 2011, there’ve been 21 wideouts in the Z-Prospect Model database who entered
the league below 5’9’’. Of those 21, 16 had a best-season receiving yards per team
pass attempt rate below 3.0, which is a category Douglas falls into.

Take a guess at how many of those 16 wide receivers have given us a WR2 season in
PPR points per game?

Zilch.

He’s got good athleticism, but Douglas is probably someone who will work better in
real football than fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             81
Ronnie Bell
WR • Michigan Wolverines (San Francisco 49ers)

                     29.3%                                            -6.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            191

Statistical Comparables:                           Tavarres King
                                                   Charleston Rambo
                                                   Danny Coale

We’re seeing a lot of older prospects this year, and it’s probably the result of
the pandemic shifting eligibility. Ronnie Bell is one of those players — he turned
23 back in January after completing his final season at Michigan as a fifth-year
Senior.

So, yeah, his age-adjusted production isn’t great. His top season in college
easily came in 2022, where he caught 62 passes for 889 yards, leading to a 2.40
receiving yards per team pass attempt rate. He consistently didn’t do well as a
touchdown scorer in college, failing to get higher than a 16.7% touchdown share in
any season. Most successful NFL wide receivers far exceeded that tally.

Bell ended up reaching a 2.0 yards per route run rate — per Pro Football Focus —
during every season at Michigan, which is a pretty impressive feat. That’s not
even something Jaxon Smith-Njigba can say.

But, overall, Bell looks like a fairly ordinary prospect. You can see that by
looking at his statistical comparables.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             82
Mitchell Tinsley
WR • Penn State Nittany Lions (Undrafted)

                       9.5%                                       -25.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’0”

Weight:                                                                            199

Statistical Comparables:                           Shaquelle Evans
                                                   Cornell Powell
                                                   Michael Campanaro

Mitchell Tinsley’s football journey is all over the place. He kicked things off by
playing two years at a community college before transferring to Western Kentucky.
He then spent two years there before finally moving to Penn State, the spot where
he played his Senior season.

Tinsley put up some big numbers at Western Kentucky — he had a 1,400-yard season
in 2021 — but those Hilltopper teams were really pass-heavy. In 2021, they ranked
second in pass rate across college football. In turn, Tinsley’s best-season yards
per team pass attempt figure isn’t nearly as good as you might think, sitting at
2.01.

Because of all the team hopping, Tinsley is entering the league as a 23-year-old
who’s passed his half birthday. Only one wide receiver has entered the NFL at 23-
and-a-half or older with a sub-2.5 best-season receiving yards per team pass
attempt and hit 10-plus PPR points in one of his first three years in the league.
That was Terry McLaurin.

Mitchell Tinsley is not Terry McLaurin.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             83
CJ Johnson
WR • East Carolina Pirates (Undrafted)

                       14.1%                                      -20.7%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            224

Statistical Comparables:                           Kalija Lipscomb
                                                   Robert Davis
                                                   Marquez Callaway

We didn’t see CJ Johnson participate at the NFL Combine, but we got his
measurements. And he’s got great size for the position, coming in as one of the
five wideouts in this class with a BMI above 28.

Johnson played four years at East Carolina, and he was productive in each season.
You could easily argue — I’d say it’s just factual — that his Freshman season was
the second-best year of his ECU career, which isn’t normal. But it gave him one of
the better Breakout Ages in this year’s class.

And that gives us some signal. Since 2011, among players drafted after Pick 100
with a Breakout Age below 19.5, about 13% of them were able to score 10-plus PPR
points per game in one of their first three seasons in the league. When a player
had a Breakout Age later than 19.5, that number dropped down to 5.2%.

If Johnson goes undrafted, the dream is over. But, at the moment, he looks like
the right kind of dart to throw at the end of rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             84
Bryce Ford-Wheaton
WR • West Virginia Mountaineers (Undrafted)

                      8.2%                                         -26.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            221

Statistical Comparables:                           Dezmon Patmon
                                                   Brice Butler
                                                   Miles Boykin

If you had to describe Bryce Ford-Wheaton with an emoji, it’d be the rocket one.
Without a doubt. Because not only did he have some jets on at the combine, but
he’s going to shoot up draft boards thanks to his performance there.

Ford-Wheaton is 6’4’’ and 221 pounds, and he ran a 4.38 40-yard dash. That gave
him a height-adjusted Speed Score — so a height- and weight-adjusted 40 time —
that was by far the best in this year’s class.

It’s also one of the best we’ve seen over the last decade from a wide receiver. We
saw Chase Claypool and DK Metcalf get there in recent memory, and Julio Jones did
years ago, too. But there aren’t many wide receivers hitting that sort of 40 at
that height and weight.

Now, like I said at the top, athleticism measurables aren’t factored into the Z-
Prospect Model at wide receiver, and it’s probably because it’s already captured
in draft capital. So Bryce Ford-Wheaton’s fast 40 doesn’t directly matter, but it
could indirectly make an impact in April.

And Ford-Wheaton’s going to need as much of a boost in draft capital as he can
get. His college production wasn’t all that great, with a best-season yards per
team pass attempt of 1.59.

Physically, he’s like DK Metcalf. The difference is that Metcalf was more
productive — he knew how to use his athleticism on a football field — so it’s
tough to think of Metcalf as even a higher-end comp for Ford-Wheaton.

Instead, your top comps for Ford-Wheaton are the uber-athletes who just couldn’t
convert at the NFL level.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             85
Puka Nacua
WR • Brigham Young Cougars (Los Angeles Rams)

                     46.5%                                          -7.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            201

Statistical Comparables:                           Alec Pierce
                                                   J'Mon Moore
                                                   DaMarkus Lodge

Update: Among all 50-plus target wide receivers last season, Puka Nacua ranked
second in yards per route run. He didn’t score very well in best-season yards per
team pass attempt (2.03), but that’s partially due to the fact that he only played
9 of 13 games. His pro-rated yards per team pass attempt was 2.31, which is
passable.

Nacua started his college career with Washington before transferring to Brigham
Young as a Junior in 2021. BYU used him in all sorts of ways that Washington
didn’t, and he ended up tallying 39 carries in two seasons as a Cougar. Those
numbers aren’t factored into the prospect model, but they do signal talent. The
team was trying to get the ball in his hands.

Nacua ended up falling to the Rams in Round 5, and LA could use the wide receiver
help. Cooper Kupp is the only locked-in piece in that offense, and Van Jefferson
is set to be a free agent next season.

The Z-Prospect Model doesn’t have high hopes for Nacua, but as you just read,
there are reasons to feel OK about his outlook. And unlike most Day 3 picks this
year, he could see production right away. Sometimes that’s all you need from a
late-round selection.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             86
Malik Heath
WR • Mississippi Rebels (Undrafted)

                      9.2%                                          -25.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            213

Statistical Comparables:                           Javon Wims
                                                   Travis Fulgham
                                                   Mark Harrison

Like many pass-catchers in the 2023 draft class, Malik Heath bounced around before
exiting school to chase an NFL dream. He started things off by playing at a
community college for a couple of years, and then he found a spot on Mississippi
State’s team in 2020. After two more years there, he transferred to Ole Miss where
he played his Senior season, catching 60 passes for 971 yards and 5 scores.

Heath’s 2.51 best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt isn’t all that bad,
and his yards per route run rate last season was fine, too. And at 6’2’’, 213
pounds, he has almost ideal size.

It’s just going to be hard for the Z-Prospect Model to like an older player who
isn’t projected to go very high in the NFL Draft. He didn’t do enough at the NFL
Combine to really boost his stock, either.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             87
Elijah Higgins
WR • Stanford Cardinal (Miami Dolphins)

                     40.7%                                         -8.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            235

Statistical Comparables:                           Vince Mayle
                                                   Quincy Enunwa
                                                   Greg Little

Update: Elijah Higgins is the biggest “wide receiver” in this year’s class. The
reason wide receiver is in quotes — I’m making bunny ears with my fingers here —
is because there’s a very real chance he moves to tight end.

The Miami Dolphins were the team that took him in the sixth round of the draft.
The Dolphins currently have Durham Smythe as their top tight end. They could use
more pass-catching ability there after losing Mike Gesicki during free agency.

As we know, Miami wants to win with speed. They’ve got Tyreek Hill and Jaylen
Waddle, and they drafted Devon Achane, who ran a 4.32 40-yard dash. Higgins, at
235 pounds, ran a 4.54 40, giving him a really strong height-adjusted Speed Score.

Higgins is a very interesting name to keep in mind late in tight end premium
rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             88
Justin Shorter
WR • Florida Gators (Buffalo Bills)

                       40.5%                                        -20.6%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            229

Statistical Comparables:                           Juwan Johnson
                                                   Rodney Smith
                                                   Dylan Cantrell

Update: The Bills added size when they drafted Justin Shorter in the fifth round
of the draft.

They didn’t add a receiver with a good analytical profile.

Shorter is 6’4’’ and nearly 230 pounds, but he somehow walked away from his five
years in college with 8 total touchdowns and a best-season touchdown share of only
11.5%. His top season in yards per team pass attempt was 1.58, giving him a
bottom-10 mark in this class. He was a five-star recruit back in the day — people
once thought Shorter was going to be the next big thing — but it just never came
to fruition in college.

It’s tough to totally fade pass-catchers who are associated with such good
offenses, but don’t let the landing spot get in the way of the player. This
doesn’t look like a Gabe Davis situation. Shorter’s profile is worse.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             89
Jake Bobo
WR • UCLA Bruins (Undrafted)

                      0.2%                                          -34.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            206

Statistical Comparables:                           Jaleel Scott
                                                   Stephen Guidry
                                                   Jehu Chesson

Jake Bobo is going to be 25 years old in August. You’ll be shocked to hear this,
but of all the players who were drafted at 24-and-a-half years old or older, none
have come close to being good fantasy producers.

Will Bobo break the mold? Highly doubtful. He’s got good length at 6’4’’, and he
didn’t have a bad super Senior season in 2022. His receiving yards per team pass
attempt was below 2.00, though, and he failed to reach a 25% touchdown share.

It would be pretty shocking if Bobo not only got good draft capital, but was then
productive in fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             90
Jalen Cropper
WR • Fresno State Bulldogs (Undrafted)

                      15.4%                                        -19.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’10”

Weight:                                                                             172

Statistical Comparables:                           JJ Nelson
                                                   Jovon Durante
                                                   Whop Philyor

The main reason Jalen Cropper has such a poor pre-draft prospect score is because
no one seems to like him. His projected draft capital is undrafted at the moment,
so if he hears his name in April, expect a boost. Because his numbers really
aren’t that bad.

He’s smaller in size, and that forced him into the slot a whole lot at Fresno
State. What’s interesting, though, is that he went from running 91% and 95% of his
routes from the slot as a Sophomore and Junior, respectively, to just a 17% rate
as a Senior. And the production didn’t dip — he had arguably his most productive
season last year.

Don’t get me wrong, a 5’10’’, 172-pound wide receiver probably isn’t going to be
pushing cornerbacks around on the perimeter in the NFL. It just shows us that he’s
a versatile athlete. That showed up at the combine, too, where he ran a 4.40 40.

Cropper has a stat score above zero in the Z-Prospect Model, which isn’t easy to
find in a player ranked this low. Hopefully he gets OK draft capital, because he
looks like a sneaky-decent player.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              91
Matt Landers
WR • Arkansas Razorbacks (Undrafted)

                     14.0%                                        -20.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’4”

Weight:                                                                            200

Statistical Comparables:                           Marquez Valdes-Scantling
                                                   Tommy Streeter
                                                   Marcell Ateman

Matt Landers showed off his speed at the NFL Combine, running his 40 in 4.37
seconds. Only Trey Palmer and Derius Davis were faster at wide receiver, and
Landers has more length than both of those wide receivers do, making his time more
impressive.

The good news mostly stops there. Landers did have a productive Senior season
where he finished with a 2.52 yards per team pass attempt, but it was a journey to
get there. He started his collegiate career at Georgia before landing in Toledo as
a Junior. After a fairly mediocre season there, he moved over to Arkansas where he
caught 47 balls for 901 yards and 8 scores during his only year as a Razorback.

So, uh, he’s pretty old. Once again, we’ve got a near 24-year-old wideout in this
year’s class, and that’s a bad sign for future fantasy performance.

Maybe a team will fall in love with the speed?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             92
Jason Brownlee
WR • Southern Mississippi Golden Eagles (Undrafted)

                      2.7%                                              -32.2%
                Z-Prospect Score                                Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                               6’2”

Weight:                                                                               198

Statistical Comparables:                              Ty Fryfogle
                                                      Tamorrion Terry
                                                      Samori Toure

Jason Brownlee spent three years at Southern Mississippi after a stint at East
Mississippi Community College. Shocker: We’ve got another older prospect in this
class.

His best-season marks are pretty good, but that’s to be expected at a school like
Souther Mississippi. He had a best-season receiving yards per team pass attempt
rate of 2.58, which was 11th-best in the class, and his top-season touchdown share
of 57.14% was tied for the absolute best in the class.

As a standalone figure, having that high of a touchdown share doesn’t really
matter. Not a single wide receiver with a 57% best-season touchdown share and bad
draft capital (past Pick 200) has become anything in fantasy football over the
last decade.

Brownlee, who turned 24 in January, isn’t someone you should be overly interested
in right now.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                93
Tre Tucker
WR • Cincinnati Bearcats (Las Vegas Raiders)

                      51.0%                                           -21.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’9”

Weight:                                                                            182

Statistical Comparables:                           Ray-Ray McCloud
                                                   Marquise Goodwin
                                                   Isaiah Burse

Update: Surprisingly, Tre Tucker was the first Cincinnati Bearcat wide receiver to
get selected in the draft. Tyler Scott’s the one with the stronger production
metrics across the board, but the Raiders — go figure — went ahead of took Tucker
with the 100th pick of the draft.

As you can see from his score, he’s very unlikely to be a fantasy football
difference-maker. His top season in yards per team pass attempt was just 1.62, a
20th percentile mark in this class. He’s undersized, too. Tucker does have speed,
which is why he was drafted in the third round in the first place, but that’s not
enough to buy into him being a fantasy producer.

This feels like the Danny Gray pick from last year all over again. You can let
someone else take Tucker in your rookie draft, assuming there’s some opportunity
cost involved in doing so.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             94
Grant DuBose
WR • Charlotte 49ers (Green Bay Packers)

                     38.3%                                          +2.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            201

Statistical Comparables:                           Austin Pettis
                                                   Matt Hazel
                                                   Ventell Bryant

There may not be a bigger underdog story in this class than what you’re getting
with Grant DuBose. No larger program wanted him on their football team out of high
school, and he ended up playing his Freshman season at Miles College in Alabama.
He then took a year off due to COVID-19, and in 2021, he tried out for UNC-
Charlotte. And the rest is history.

DuBose’s numbers weren’t spectacular within the context of Charlotte football. He
had a negative stat score in the model, and each one of his production metrics
were a little bit below average. Players from smaller programs generally need
monster numbers if they have any hope of being productive in the NFL.

He’s not projected to go high in the draft, either.

But he’s a fun player to root for.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             95
Kearis Jackson
WR • Georgia Bulldogs (Undrafted)

                       1.8%                                          -33.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             196

Statistical Comparables:                           Reggie Roberson
                                                   Steven Mitchell
                                                   Slade Bolden

Kearis Jackson went to a stellar program in Georgia, but he failed to produce NFL-
caliber numbers there. His best season came as a Sophomore back in 2020 where he
ran nearly 91% of his routes from the slot. He played from that part of the field
often at Georgia, but even with softer coverage, he was only able to capture a
best-season yards per team pass attempt rate of 1.68.

Jackson is an older prospect after spending five years as a Bulldog, and he has
the seventh-worst stat score in this year’s class. It would be quite a surprise to
see him as a fantasy-relevant piece at some point over the next few seasons.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              96
Michael Jefferson
WR • Louisiana-Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns (Undrafted)

                       7.2%                                         -27.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                               Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                              6’4”

Weight:                                                                              199

Statistical Comparables:                             Jamal Custis
                                                     Brice Butler
                                                     Mekale McKay

None of the smaller-program wide receivers with best-season yards per team pass
attempt rates under 2.00 in the Z-Prospect Model have become anything in fantasy
football. Well, except for Tyreek Hill, but Hill technically did play one year at
Oklahoma State.

Michael Jefferson played at Louisiana-Lafayette for a couple of years after
transferring from Alabama State. Despite going up against inferior talent, he has
a bottom-15 stat score among wideouts in this year’s class. He’s also going to be
almost 23-and-a-half years old by the time the draft rolls around.

There’s a chance Jefferson doesn’t hear his name called during this year’s NFL
Draft. Even if he does, there’s a very low chance that he’ll be worthy of
rostering in any fantasy format.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                               97
Michael Wilson
WR • Stanford Cardinal (Arizona Cardinals)

                      58.8%                                        -14.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            213

Statistical Comparables:                           Jalen Camp
                                                   Chris Moore
                                                   Toney Clemons

Update: There are Michael Wilson truthers out there, but I — and the model — am
not one of them.

Wilson has the right frame for an NFL wide receiver, but he struggled mightily to
stay healthy during his time at Stanford. That resulted in a best-season yards per
team play rate of 1.51, one of the lower rates in the class. He also didn’t test
exceptionally well as an athlete, making the Day 2 selection by Arizona that much
more surprising.

Wilson did barely break out as a Sophomore, so he has that going for him. And
maybe he can finally stay uninjured as he enters the NFL. It’s just that even if
he had stayed healthy in college, it doesn’t seem like he would’ve been some big
producer. His prorated numbers in yards per team pass attempt still show up below
2.00, a number hit by 60% of this wide receiver class.

The Cardinals are going through some changes, so there’s opportunity for him to
show up and get some work. It just doesn’t seem wise to be optimistic about Wilson
as a prospect.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                             98
Jacob Copeland
WR • Maryland Terrapins (Undrafted)

                       1.0%                                          -33.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            5’11”

Weight:                                                                             201

Statistical Comparables:                           Jon'Vea Johnson
                                                   Darrell Stewart
                                                   Kaelin Clay

Of the three Maryland wide receivers in this year’s class, Jacob Copeland has the
worst best-season receptions per game, yards per team pass attempt, and touchdown
share rates. He’s also the oldest of the trio, which doesn’t help things.

He did test as the most athletic at the combine after running a 4.42, but that
doesn’t matter nearly as much as the production side of things. Maybe that
explosiveness ends up translating, but that’s not what we generally see.

With poor numbers across the board, you shouldn’t have high expectations for
Copeland.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                              99
Antoine Green
WR • North Carolina Tar Heels (Detroit Lions)

                       33.1%                                       -10.9%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            199

Statistical Comparables:                           Van Jefferson
                                                   Damion Ratley
                                                   Kenbrell Thompkins

A lot of the lower-tiered guys in this year’s class look the same on paper. They
have fine enough size, but they stuck around school for a while — likely due to
the COVID season — and never were able to put together an ultra-productive
campaign.

Like, Antoine Green had a best-season 1.61 yards per team pass attempt rate
despite playing five years at North Carolina. Maybe that number would’ve looked a
little better had he been healthier in 2022, but, at best, he wasn’t reaching the
2.00 mark.

With Josh Downs playing the slot in Carolina, Green took on a perimeter role. And
he got vertical. His average depth of target rates over his final two seasons at
UNC were 19.0 and 18.1, and he was 11th among relevant wide receivers this past
year across college football in percentage of targets that were 20-plus yards down
the field.

It just would’ve been nice to see Green with a little more speed at the combine.
He ran a 4.47 40-yard dash, which is strong, but if he’s going to play that
stretch-the-field role, he’ll need even more speed to separate at the next level.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            100
Malik Knowles
WR • Kansas State Wildcats (Undrafted)

                      4.5%                                        -30.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            196

Statistical Comparables:                           Daesean Hamilton
                                                   Emanuel Hall
                                                   Seth Williams

Malik Knowles spent five years at Kansas State. He redshirted as a Freshman, and
then he went down the traditional path of playing all four years.

He didn’t do a whole lot of special things there. His top season in yards per team
pass attempt was 1.86, and he was just shy of a best-season touchdown share of
30%. Those numbers are better than some of the other lower-end wideouts in the
class, but they’re still not elevating him to a spot where he’s bound to be a
great fantasy producer.

Knowles is a perimeter wide receiver who had some experience as a kick returner
for the Wildcats. That’s something you can hold onto to boost him a little bit
subjectively, but without the projected draft capital, he’s unlikely to be
anything more than a WR4 or WR5 for fantasy purposes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            101
Joseph Ngata
WR • Clemson Tigers (Undrafted)

                      10.1%                                       -24.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’3”

Weight:                                                                            217

Statistical Comparables:                           Racey McMath
                                                   Evan Spencer
                                                   Austin Mack

Exiting high school, Joseph Ngata was a five-star recruit. There were high hopes.

So, uh, about that.

Ngata has the worst stat score in this year’s draft class. Some of that is injury-
driven, but he spent four years at Clemson and failed to hit a 10% touchdown share
in a single season. He’s the 12th wide receiver in the Z-Prospect Model with a
best-season touchdown share below that 10% mark.

It gets worse. His top-season in yards per team pass attempt was just 1.10. That’s
a bottom-25 number.

He has the physical tools, but the route running and ability to separate just
haven’t been there for him. It’s tough to feel good about him, even with the
exciting post-high school hype.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            102
Jalen Wayne
WR • South Alabama Jaguars (Undrafted)

                      0.3%                                          -34.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            210

Statistical Comparables:                           Toney Clemons
                                                   Rashawn Scott
                                                   Javon McKinley

If there’s a type of profile to avoid at wide receiver, it’s Jalen Wayne’s.

He went to a small school, something you don’t want from a wide receiver for
fantasy purposes. Despite facing easier opponents, each of his Z-Prospect Model
production marks were below average. He also played six collegiate seasons. And,
because of that, he’ll be 24 years old around draft time.

Wayne was obliterated production-wise at South Alabama by teammate Jalen Tolbert.
Remember Tolbert? The guy who couldn’t find the field for the wide receiver-needy
Cowboys in 2022? Yeah. He was a whole lot better than Wayne.

It would be the surprise of the decade — remember, the model dates back to 2011 —
if Wayne became a fantasy football staple.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            103
Derius Davis
WR • Texas Christian Horned Frogs (Los Angeles Chargers)

                     38.9%                                                -27.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                                     Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                                    5’8”

Weight:                                                                                    165

Statistical Comparables:                                   Jeff Thomas
                                                           Jakeem Grant
                                                           Kashif Moore

Update: Like the pre-draft prospect guide said, Derius Davis was bound to see a
bump in draft capital after running the second-fastest wide receiver 40-yard dash
at this year’s combine.

Did anyone expect a fourth-round selection?

Davis joins TCU teammate Quentin Johnston on the Chargers, giving Justin Herbert a
speedy, gadgety pass-catcher. Unfortunately, there’s probably not much happening
here from a fantasy perspective. Davis is undersized and had a bottom-tiered
production profile within this year’s class. That’s despite the fact that he
played five years at Texas Christian.

We could see some electric plays from Davis in this Chargers offense, but asking
him to be a high-volume player is a little much.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                    104
Jaray Jenkins
WR • Louisiana State Tigers (Undrafted)

                       6.4%                                          -28.5%
                 Z-Prospect Score                            Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’2”

Weight:                                                                            204

Statistical Comparables:                           Chris Lacy
                                                   Darius White
                                                   Binjimen Victor

We’ve seen some studs come out of LSU over the last decade, but Jaray Jenkins
doesn’t have the same type of backbone that some of those players had. His stat
score is third-worst in this year’s draft class, his career high in yards per
route run is just 1.78, and he lacks higher-end athleticism. The size is there,
but there’s nothing that stands out. At all.

We did see Russell Gage come out of LSU and become a reasonable fantasy asset, and
he, like Jenkins, had a poor production score. But that’s really not something I’d
want to lean on, even with a last-round rookie pick.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            105
Jalen Brooks
WR • South Carolina Gamecocks (Dallas Cowboys)

                     25.2%                                         -12.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                             Draft Capital Delta

Height:                                                                            6’1”

Weight:                                                                            201

Statistical Comparables:                           James Wright
                                                   Slade Bolden
                                                   Kenbrell Thompkins

Athleticism isn’t everything at wide receiver, but it’s never a good sign when a
player runs the slowest 40-yard dash at the NFL Combine. It’s even worse when that
same player has a best-season touchdown share below 5%, having scored two total
touchdowns across four collegiate seasons.

That’s what we’ve got out of Jalen Brooks. And that top-season touchdown share is
worrisome. Only five other wide receivers in the Z-Prospect Model have had one
that low and, predictably, none of them have done anything in fantasy football at
the next level.

You can confidently avoid Brooks in your rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                            106
The Year 2 Model
Overview

We learn more about players with time. A rookie entering the NFL is a
whole lot more unpredictable than a six-year veteran. You’re looking at a
player who’s never stepped foot on an NFL eld versus one who’s
potentially played close to 100 games in the league.

Naturally, after a player gets through his rookie season, we understand
more about his game. Garrett Wilson got to Jets camp last summer as a
stud prospect, but there wasn’t some guarantee that he’d be a star in
the NFL. It turned out that he is, and now we can adjust accordingly.

Not every player and situation is as clear-cut as that, though. There are
second-year players across the league with giant question marks.

That’s where the Year 2 Model comes into play.



       The goal of the Year 2 Model is to be much better
       at predicting his second- and third-year
       production than a player’s rookie-season points
       per game average.
The Year 2 Model — both at running back and wide receiver —
incorporates a player’s prospect score, some rookie-season production
inputs, and his rookie-season points per game average to get a Year 2
score. That’s the gist of it.

Everything in the Year 2 Model ties back to a player’s max-season PPR
points per game during his second or third season. So if a player scored




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    107


                                fi
16 and 19 points per game during his second and third season,
respectively, the model only cares about that 19 points per game mark.

As you’d guess, the Year 2 Model is a lot better at predicting a player’s
best points per game season in Year 2 or Year 3 than his rookie-season
points per game average alone.

To me, this all is logical.



        If a player came from nowhere — if a guy
        wasn’t supposed to be good, but he balled out
        during his rookie year — then there’s more risk
        with that player than if an early-round pick did the
        exact same thing.
There’s more risk with Dameon Pierce or Isiah Pacheco going into 2023
than there is with Kenneth Walker.

The Year 2 Model can help us out when higher draft selections
underperform, too. Is Skyy Moore, a second-round pick last year,
doomed? What about Alec Pierce?

Similar to the Z-Prospect Model, there are easy-to-understand
probability charts for the Year 2 Model.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    108
     The Year 2 Model is straight up more predictive than the Z-Prospect
     Model. That shouldn’t be much of a surprise considering we’re working
     with actual NFL data, and we’ve gotten some sample of a player as a
     professional.

     The wide receiver table above clearly shows that. Of the wide receivers
     since 2011 with three-plus seasons in the league who ranked in the 95th
     to 100th percentile in Year 2 score, every single one gave us a PPR
     points per game season of 12 or more in either Year 2 or Year 3. A
     shocking 52% of them hit 18 or more PPR points, a typical top- ve wide
     receiver nish.



             Historically, a wide receiver in the elite percentile
             group has had about 50-50 odds to give you a
             top-5 season in PPR points per game during either
             Year 2 or Year 3.
     As you move from group to group, the hit rates predictably change. Wide
     receivers in the 70th to 75th percentile tier almost always fail to give you
     a double-digit PPR season in Year 2 or Year 3. Under that 70th
     percentile mark? Good luck.

     So people are aware, the wide receiver Year 2 Model changed a bit from
     last year. New inputs were inserted, and the model became even more
     predictive.

     Unfortunately, it means that last year’s results aren’t totally the same.
     Nothing dramatically shifted, but it sure would’ve been nice to have the
     changes last season. Because, for example, Elijah Moore’s Year 2 score
     dropped a couple of percentage points with the new additions to the
     model. He doesn’t look as appetizing.

     That could’ve saved me a lot of headaches as an analyst!




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       109


                                                           fi
fi
Nevertheless, the model’s accuracy is even better, and that’s a good
thing.

The model looks pretty good at running back, too, but things aren’t as
clean.




Running back is a tougher position to project than wide receiver. If a
coach decides to split his back eld, then that’s going to ruin the fantasy
upside for a running back. You don’t really run into that issue at wide
receiver since so many are on the eld at once.

With all that being said, it’s pretty clear that the 95th to 100th percentile
tier at running back is elite. It’s where the truly high-ceiling seasons are
coming from. Nearly half of the players from that tier have given you a
high-end RB1 season since 2011.

The next tier isn’t so bad, either, but you’re not getting as much upside.

Overall, betting on a 90th percentile or better running back seems like a
good call. Below that, there’s a lot more risk.


Journey Comparables
Elijah Mitchell was great during his rookie season. He sort of came out of
nowhere — he was a sixth-round pick in the NFL Draft — and then
scored 15 PPR points per game during his rst year in the league.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                        110


                                 fi
                         fi
                    fi
     Kyle shanahan is an animal.

     After that rookie season, fantasy managers were wondering whether
     Mitchell was a buy or sell in dynasty. He clearly had an outlier season —
     not many Day 3 picks do what he did as a rookie — but because his
     season was anything but ordinary, did that mean his career would be,               Selling Mitchell
     too?

                                                                                       The Year 2 Model pegged Mitchell as a
     Enter Journey Comparables.                                                    sub-90th percentile player last season. It’s
                                                                                     almost impossible for late-round running
                                                                                  backs to hit the 90th percentile in the Year 2
     You’ve probably already read about statistical comparables with the Z-
                                                                                        Model because it’s so rare for them to
     Prospect Model pro les earlier. Journey Comparables are a little                                         sustain success.
     di erent. Rather than looking at a player’s attributes as he enters the
     league, Journey Comparables inspect a player’s Z-Prospect Model score
     along with his Year 2 Model score. It then looks at players in history who
     have gone through a similar path — a similar journey — from before
     Year 1 to before Year 2.

     Journey Comparables don’t deal with play style, height, weight, or any
     other qualities. It’s simply a look at players in history who entered the
     league as a similarly graded prospect who then went into their second
     season with a comparable Year 2 Model score as well.

     Elijah Mitchell was an odd case, but it wasn’t as unique as you might
     think. He entered the NFL as a 55th percentile prospect, and after his
     rookie season, he had a Year 2 Model score in the 87th percentile.

     No player had gone through that identical jump in score, but there were
     a few who were close: Zac Stacy, Andre Ellington, and James Robinson.
     Those comps led yours truly down a path to thinking Mitchell was more
     than a sell than a buy.

     History often repeats itself. In fantasy football, too.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                                                      111


             fi
ff
     2023 Year 2 Model Pro les
     Overview
     If you were one of the fortunate ones who drafted Isiah Pacheco in your
     dynasty rookie draft last year, is now the time to trade him away? Is
     George Pickens about to become a foundational dynasty asset? Are
     there any players from last year’s draft class who are totally ying under
     the radar?

     These Year 2 Model pro les can help answer those questions.

     Over the nal section of this guide, you’ll read about all relevant wide
     receivers and running backs from last year’s draft class.



            You’ll see where the Year 2 Model has them
            ranked, and you’ll get insight on how to manage
            each player moving forward.
     Let’s reshape those dynasty rosters.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                    112


                                                      fl
                                          fi
                 fi
fi
Key Terms
Z-Prospect Score: The score — often in percentile form — given to an
incoming rookie in the Z-Prospect Model. It’s based on the factors
outlined in the Z-Prospect Overview section of this guide.

B2S: The Z-Prospect Model attempts to predict how well a player will do
in fantasy football across his rst three years in the league. In doing this,
it tests against the average of a player’s top-two seasons in PPR points
per game during his rst three years as a pro. This is referred to as B2S
(Best Two Seasons).

Draft Capital Delta: The percentile di erence between a player’s Z-
Prospect score versus where he was drafted in the actual NFL Draft.
Anything under 0 means the player was overdrafted, and anything over 0
means the player was underdrafted.

Journey Comparables: Players in history who have had similar Z-
Prospect Model and Year 2 Model scores.

Expected Max PPR PPG Season: The estimated outcome in best-season
PPR points per game in Year 2 or Year 3 for a particular player. This is
simply a median, so the number is likely smaller than expected.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       113


                           ff
                  fi
         fi
Running Back


Breece Hall
RB • New York Jets


                     96.9%                                           97.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       16.4

Journey Comparables:                               Dalvin Cook
                                                   Giovani Bernard
                                                   Najee Harris

Breece Hall might be better than you think. During his rookie campaign that was
cut short by a torn ACL, Hall led NFL running backs in yards after contact per
attempt, and he saw the largest difference in his yards per carry versus his
running back teammate’s yards per carry in the league.

The only reason his Year 2 Model score isn’t higher is because he had an
incomplete season. But the fact that it’s still well over the 95th percentile mark
shows you that he’s legitimate.

Hall should be considered one of the best running backs in dynasty, even with the
ACL tear. His 16.3 expected max PPR point per game season isn’t that stellar, but,
as you saw earlier, half of the running backs in this percentile group go on to
have a high-end RB1 season in either Year 2 or Year 3. Maybe it won’t happen right
away for Hall, but he’s the best bet out of anyone from last year’s class.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           114
Kenneth Walker
RB • Seattle Seahawks


                     93.2%                                            94.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.9

Journey Comparables:                               Nick Chubb
                                                   TJ Yeldon
                                                   Javonte Williams

At first, it seemed strange that Kenneth Walker saw a modest jump in percentile
ranking from his Z-Prospect Model score to his Year 2 Model one. But when you dig
into his rookie campaign, it all makes sense.

Walker’s big red flag entering the NFL was his pass-catching profile. His best-
season reception share was lacking, which allowed yours truly to put him in a tier
below the aforementioned Breece Hall. That was the big difference between the two.

Walker’s rookie season didn’t exactly show us that his college receiving profile
should’ve been ignored. Remember, poor pass-catching numbers in college don’t
necessarily mean a player will fail to catch any passes in the NFL. It’s just a
signal for talent.

But a poor receiving profile at the collegiate level rarely leads to a great
receiving profile in the pros. And during Walker’s rookie campaign, once he took
over as starter for Seattle, he had just a 7.5% target share per game rate in the
Seahawks offense.

His rushing numbers were — and I hate to say this — pretty overrated, too. Among
all 100-plus attempt backs in 2022, Walker ranked worst in percentage of carries
that went 0 or fewer yards. He was also last in success rate, per numberFire’s
expected points model.

He should have a productive career, but it’s hard to see an alpha ceiling for
Walker. The fact that Nick Chubb keeps popping up as a comparable — he was a
statistical comp for Walker as a prospect — points to the fact that Walker could
end up being a better real football running back than fantasy one.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           115
Dameon Pierce
RB • Houston Texans


                      68.0%                                          88.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       11.2

Journey Comparables:                               Jordan Howard
                                                   Alfred Morris
                                                   Jamaal Williams

Dameon Pierce is probably the toughest Year 2 Model evaluation this year at
running back. He didn’t score exceptionally well in the Z-Prospect Model thanks to
being part of a backfield split in college, and his draft capital wasn’t special,
either.

There were underlying metrics that favored Pierce as a prospect, though. He had
the best Pro Football Focus grade of any collegiate running back in 2021, and all
of his per-attempt numbers were exceptional.

That really showed during his first year in the league. Pierce, on a team without
much competition, ended his year with an 86.4% running back rush share per game.
Not only was that by far the best share from a rookie back this past year, but it
was the fifth-best that we’ve seen from a first-year runner since 2011.

I wish we could say that that’s telling about his future, but the players ranked
ahead of him on that list are James Robinson, Alfred Morris, Elijah Mitchell, and
Kareem Hunt. We’re talking about good-not-great backs here.

Pierce’s Journey Comparables consist of players who were solid pros after sort of
being afterthoughts during the NFL Draft. The odds that he becomes a top-10
dynasty running back are pretty slim, but it’s not like he’s priced that way.

You could go either way with Pierce right now. It just depends on how your
leaguemates view him.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           116
Rachaad White
RB • Tampa Bay Buccaneers


                     85.4%                                            88.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.9

Journey Comparables:                               David Montgomery
                                                   Tre Mason
                                                   Jerick McKinnon

Rachaad White wasn’t a stellar runner in 2022, ranking towards the bottom of the
league in percentage of carries that went more than zero and more than two yards.
He was getting stuffed often. He did, however, finish with an almost identical
success rate as Leonard Fournette, so he wasn’t so bad when given situational
context.

The promising part of White’s game was and still is his receiving chops. His best-
season reception share of 20.9% in college was a big reason the Z-Prospect Model
loved him, and in 2022, White averaged a target share per game rate of 7.7% in a
part-time role. He finished more games with a target share above 10% last year
than Kenneth Walker did. And Walker was a full-time guy for most of the season.

White seems to be properly valued by the dynasty market. Your hopes shouldn’t be
sky high, but a player in the 87th percentile has had about 60% odds of scoring
double-digit PPR points in his second or third year in the league. There’s some
worry that the Buccaneers add competition for him this offseason, though.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           117
Tyler Allgeier
RB • Atlanta Falcons


                       70.1%                                          82.3%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.3

Journey Comparables:                               Marlon Mack
                                                   Matt Jones
                                                   Kenneth Gainwell

Tyler Allgeier had one of the highest Draft Capital Deltas in the 2022 running
back class. He was a Day 3 pick, so expectations weren’t high, but he was able to
get over the 70th percentile mark. That’s not easy to do with that type of draft
capital.

And he showed up for the Falcons. Per Pro Football Focus data, only Breece Hall,
Rhamondre Stevenson, Tony Pollard, and Khalil Herbert had a higher yards after
contact per attempt last year than Allgeier. He became just the 17th rookie
running back since 2011 to hit the 1,000-yard mark, too.

Unfortunately, he had just a 4.3% target share last year. It’s not super common to
see a running back with a sub-5% target share in Year 1 go on to be a consistent
RB1 or RB2 in fantasy football. We’ve seen it before — and one player who’s done
it was one of the Allgeier comps last offseason in James Conner — but it’s not a
normal occurrence.

As is usually the case, the market appears to be accounting for this. Given his
Year 2 Model percentile score is in the 82nd percentile, he’s probably more of a
hold than a sell. Just keep in mind that we almost never see players from this
tier go on to be RB1s in fantasy during Year 2 and Year 3 of their careers.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           118
James Cook
RB • Buffalo Bills


                         83.1%                                     81.8%
                     Z-Prospect Score                         Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.4

Journey Comparables:                               Terrance West
                                                   Zack Moss
                                                   CJ Prosise

The Bills have been chasing a pass-catching running back over the last few years,
and they seemed to have their guy when they selected James Cook in Round 2 last
year.

And then they didn’t use him as that player at all in 2022.

Cook finished the season with a target share below 6%. He was pretty effective on
the ground, however, finishing with a 47.3% success rate, a number that was 4
percentage points higher than Devin Singletary’s. Cook also had a yards per carry
rate that was 1.2 yards better than his running back teammates, a number that
ranked ninth-best among 66 running backs with 50 or more carries last year.

He still needs to get his target share up, though. And it’s not impossible for
that to happen. Over the last 11 seasons, we’ve had 17 running backs fail to get
to a 6% target share in Year 1 who then got to a 13% target share or better in
future seasons. Those aren’t great odds, but they’re there.

Looking at his Journey Comparables, it’s hard to be ultra bullish on Cook. Once
you get out of that 90th percentile range in the model, you start to get some iffy
output.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           119
Brian Robinson
RB • Washington Commanders


                     72.1%                                           79.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       8.7

Journey Comparables:                               Samaje Perine
                                                   Marlon Mack
                                                   Devonta Freeman

You could definitely have worse Journey Comparables than Samaje Perine, Marlon
Mack, and Devonta Freeman, no?

Robinson is sort of like a Tyler Allgeier-lite. He was effective enough on the
ground, and he finished the year with over 200 carries. We only get two or three
rookie running backs hitting that mark per season.

His receiving work? That was about as good as the Game of Thrones series finale.

Robinson had a 3.6% target share per game rate in 2022. Here’s a list of the
rookie backs since 2011 with 200-plus carries and a sub-5% target share per game
average: Brian Robinson, Tyler Allgeier, Alfred Morris, Vick Ballard, and Sony
Michel.

Like so many of these backs around the 80th percentile in the Z-Prospect Model,
Robinson’s future is up in the air because he just wasn’t used as a receiver in
Year 1. He, like Tyler Allgeier and James Cook, isn’t really someone I’d actively
look to buy this offseason.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           120
Isiah Pacheco
RB • Kansas City Chiefs


                     48.2%                                            70.1%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.5

Journey Comparables:                               Daryl Richardson
                                                   Ty Johnson
                                                   Chris Carson

A Late-Round Prospect Guide favorite from last year, Isiah Pacheco has seen his
stock skyrocket since being drafted. He had one of the best Draft Capital Deltas
in the class a year ago, but his Z-Prospect score still wasn’t all that high given
he was selected in the seventh round.

That’s undoubtedly bringing his Year 2 Model score down. As is the fact that he
wasn’t used much as a receiver this past year — he only tallied 14 total targets
in the regular season. That usage changed a bit in the playoffs, but it’s still a
concern.

Pacheco’s valuation in dynasty is going to be all over the place. So let me just
hit you with a bit of history.

In the Z-Prospect Model, we’ve got over 120 running backs with a prospect score in
the 30th to 60th percentile. That’s where Pacheco was last year. Of those backs,
just two have had a season of 15 or more PPR points per game across their first
three years in the league. One was Myles Gaskin, and the other was Chris Carson,
who’s one of Pacheco’s Journey Comparables.

It’s understandable if you’d want to just ride the Pacheco wave. As someone with
him in a ton — almost all — of my dynasty leagues, I’ll be doing that in spots.
But if someone is willing to overspend after a strong playoff performance, you
should be open to it, as hard as that is for me to admit.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           121
Jaylen Warren
RB • Pittsburgh Steelers


                      32.0%                                         63.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.8

Journey Comparables:                               Justin Jackson
                                                   Bryce Brown
                                                   Alfred Blue

Jaylen Warren was a quintessential handcuff during his rookie campaign.
Truthfully, the Z-Prospect Model didn’t think he had it in him: We rarely see
backs with a score under the 35th percentile do anything in fantasy.

But Warren had a really solid season. He bested teammate Najee Harris in yards
after contact per attempt, and Pro Football Focus gave Warren the top receiving
grade in 2022 out of the runners in the Steelers backfield.

It’s tough to imagine a world where Warren thrives outside of a Najee Harris
injury, at least in the short term. And, remember, the Year 2 Model is looking at
that short-term outlook. That’s likely why his top Journey Comparable is Justin
Jackson — a player who was fantasy relevant at times, but usually due to injury to
a starter.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           122
Zonovan Knight
RB • New York Jets


                     25.3%                                        62.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.5

Journey Comparables:                               Josh Adams
                                                   Salvon Ahmed
                                                   Bryce Brown

It’s a little startling to see Bam Knight’s Year 2 Model score so close to Isiah
Pacheco’s. It’s only five percentiles away. Consider this, though: Knight only
played seven games in 2022, and he was a weekly RB2 or better in three — about 43%
— of them. That’s technically a better rate of finishing as an RB2-plus than
Pacheco’s 41%.

The two are clearly and obviously valued differently in dynasty. And that’s
because Knight is dealing with Breece Hall in a more volatile offense. Pacheco
soared during the playoffs, has Patrick Mahomes and Andy Reid, and isn’t dealing
with anything substantial on his depth chart.

Pacheco should be valued much higher than Knight.

Knight’s Journey Comparables aren’t thrilling, and his score places him in a tier
that lacks serious upside. He’ll likely be, at best, a good handcuff in fantasy.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           123
Wide Receiver


Chris Olave
WR • New Orleans Saints


                     97.9%                                         99.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       19.5

Journey Comparables:                               Odell Beckham
                                                   AJ Green
                                                   CeeDee Lamb

The near-98th percentile score that was spit out for Chris Olave by the Z-Prospect
Model last year was a little controversial.

Until he balled out during his rookie season.

I’m still not sure people realize how good Olave was in 2022. There’ve been over
110 rookie wide receiver seasons since 2011 where the wideout saw 50 or more
targets. So this isn’t even all rookies, but ones who were good enough to capture
50 targets.

Chris Olave’s rookie season yards per route run rate ranked fifth-best among that
group, behind only Odell Beckham, AJ Brown, Justin Jefferson, and Ja’Marr Chase.
His targets per route run rate was fourth-best.

Garrett Wilson is rightfully getting a lot of love by fantasy managers and the
media. He’s a stud. Olave, though, is just as studly. Even more so than Wilson,
per the model.

Only eight other wide receivers since 2011 have gotten to the 98th percentile in
the Year 2 Model while playing three years in the league. The lowest PPR points
per game output in Year 2 or 3 by any of those players came from Amari Cooper,
where he maxed out at 14.4 points. That’s still a WR2 season in a 12-team league.

Chris Olave is legit. He’s probably even more legit than you realize.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           124
Drake London
WR • Atlanta Falcons


                       98.4%                                         98.4%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       18.2

Journey Comparables:                               Julio Jones
                                                   Mike Evans
                                                   Justin Blackmon

Last year’s top receiver in the Z-Prospect Model was Drake London. Clearly, he’s
not at the top anymore.

That doesn’t mean he’s in bad shape. London’s still sitting above the 98th
percentile after a pretty underrated rookie campaign. His fantasy output was
capped by a 1960s style offense that threw the ball at the fourth-lowest rate of
the decade. London’s rookie season actually saw him with a far better yards per
route run average than Garrett Wilson, and his targets per route run rate was the
third-best we’ve seen from any rookie pass-catcher since 2011.

Most importantly, London saw a whole lot of volume. The only rookie wideout with a
higher target share per game rate dating back to the 2011 season was Odell
Beckham. That resulted in a yards per team pass attempt of 2.09. The only rookie
wideouts during this timeframe with a better number there were Justin Jefferson,
Ja’Marr Chase, AJ Brown, and Odell Beckham.

If anyone in your dynasty league is worried about London because of his situation,
you should be jumping all over the opportunity to acquire him. All of his
underlying metrics are fantastic, and the Year 2 Model thinks he’s got a great
shot to be a WR1 in fantasy football.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           125
Garrett Wilson
WR • New York Jets


                     97.4%                                         97.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       17.5

Journey Comparables:                               Jaylen Waddle
                                                   CeeDee Lamb
                                                   AJ Green

It may be surprising to see Garrett Wilson ranked below both Chris Olave and Drake
London in Year 2 Model. He’s listed ahead of both in dynasty rankings and will get
selected first in startups, and he’s coming off an Offensive Rookie of the Year
season.

So, uh, what’s happening here?

Well, first off, I wouldn’t be so concerned about the small gap in score. A
near-98th percentile rating is still extremely good, and it places Wilson in the
same tier as the other two wideouts. Let’s not take this further than it needs to
go.

But for as good as Wilson was in Year 1, Olave and London had some peripheral
numbers that just looked better. Their yards per route run rates were stronger.
Their offensive shares were better. And, for London, his starting point — his Z-
Prospect score — was higher.

The fact of the matter is, the three of them — Chris Olave, Drake London, and
Garrett Wilson — appear to be studs. Players in this upgraded Year 2 Model who
fall in the 95th to 100th percentile bucket end up hitting at an insane rate.

Garrett Wilson is a cornerstone piece to your dynasty roster.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           126
Jahan Dotson
WR • Washington Commanders


                     94.2%                                          93.0%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.1

Journey Comparables:                               Brandin Cooks
                                                   Elijah Moore
                                                   Kendall Wright

After the Big Three™ at wide receiver from last year’s class, you hit some
question marks.

It’s not that Jahan Dotson is headed towards being irrelevant. Quite the opposite.
A 93rd percentile Year 2 Model rating means that Dotson has about a 22% chance to
score 16 or more points in either his second or third year. And there’s almost a
50% chance that he’ll score 14 or more points. That’s what we’ve seen
historically.

There’s just some downside here. His 1.39 yards per route run rate was a bottom
half number among worthwhile rookie wideouts over the last decade or so, and his
targets per route run average was even worse. His 15.7% target share per game was
fine, but nothing extraordinary.

The thing is, Dotson’s been undervalued by the dynasty market since he entered the
league. The Year 2 Model places him in a tier with guys like George Pickens,
Christian Watson, and Treylon Burks — spoiler alert — but he often goes well after
them in startup drafts. From that perspective, Dotson is sort of a buy candidate.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           127
George Pickens
WR • Pittsburgh Steelers


                      82.5%                                         92.7%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       12.9

Journey Comparables:                               Torrey Smith
                                                   Chase Claypool
                                                   Greg Little

There are definitely George Pickens truthers out there, and while some of his
highlight-reel catches were jaw-dropping during his rookie campaign, there are
still some red flags to his overall profile.

When looking at his routes run and volume numbers, Pickens looks a whole lot like
the aforementioned Jahan Dotson. He had nearly the exact same yards per route run,
targets per route run, and target share per game rates.

One thing that’s helping Pickens is his rookie season yards per team pass attempt
figure. The Steelers passing attack was pretty pitiful last season — especially
during the first half of the year — so yards per team pass attempt is a way for us
to see how well Pickens performed within the context of his offense. And he did
well, with only 33 rookie wide receivers since 2011 faring better within the
statistic.

Pickens has the tools to be a very good wide receiver in the NFL, but given his
percentile rank and Journey Comparables, he doesn’t have a super great chance of
being elite. Players in his Year 2 Model tier hit 18 or more PPR points in either
Year 2 or Year 3 at just a 9% rate. Above the 95th percentile, that jumps up to
52%.

Because there are fantasy managers out there who think that ceiling is there for
Pickens, it wouldn’t be a bad idea to shop him. If you can’t sell super high,
holding onto him is fine. He should still be productive.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           128
Christian Watson
WR • Green Bay Packers


                     83.5%                                          92.5%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       12.8

Journey Comparables:                               Greg Little
                                                   Chase Claypool
                                                   DK Metcalf

Just to reiterate, Journey Comparables only care about Z-Prospect and Year 2 Model
scores. That’s it. Because Christian Watson and the previously mentioned George
Pickens have such similar ratings, their Journey Comparables are really similar,
too.

Watson didn’t have the most complete production profile entering the league last
year, and the lack of early-declare status from a non-Power Five program made him
even riskier. But the athleticism was there. And as I noted in last year’s Watson
writeup, sometimes that athleticism translates.

It did big time in 2022. Watson wasn’t a full-time player until later in the
season, but the dude thrived. He finished the year with a yards per route run rate
of 2.26. Not only was that second-best in the class behind only Chris Olave, but
among qualified rookie wideouts since 2011, it was seventh-highest. And the
players around him on that list went on to have really productive careers.

Watson’s 16.6% target share per game rate wasn’t as high as you’d like to see, and
that’s what’s scary about the potential for him to go the Chase Claypool route.
His high-end Journey Comparable, DK Metcalf, was over 20% during his first year in
the league, while Claypool wasn’t.

So, in essence, we’re close to where we were last offseason: Christian Watson is a
high-ceiling pass-catcher who comes with a big reward. Per the Year 2 Model, he’s
a pretty decent bet for future production. And because of his peripherals, I’d
argue he has a higher ceiling than George Pickens.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           129
Treylon Burks
WR • Tennessee Titans


                     95.3%                                          91.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.1

Journey Comparables:                               Rashod Bateman
                                                   Corey Coleman
                                                   Tavon Austin

Rashod Bateman as the top Journey Comparable for Treylon Burks makes a ton of
sense. He, like Burks, entered the league with a ton of dynasty managers thinking
he could be great. And, like Burks, Bateman dealt with some injuries and didn’t
exactly live up to the hype.

Now, don’t get me wrong: Burks had the more impressive rookie year. Behind the
surface-level 8.6 PPR points per game average was a wideout with a respectable
1.75 yards per route run rate, a number fairly close to Garrett Wilson’s. Burks
also had a target share per game average of 17.3%, and that number looks even
better when you focus on games where he saw significant snaps.

There were definitely moments last season where you could see the upside with
Burks. His Year 2 Model score saw a dip, but that was bound to happen with the
injuries he dealt with. The 90th to 95th percentile tier feels right. And that’s
objectively where he’s at.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           130
Wan’Dale Robinson
WR • New York Giants


                       92.6%                                        85.3%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.1

Journey Comparables:                               Rondale Moore
                                                   Kadarius Toney
                                                   Jalen Reagor

The Z-Prospect Model doesn’t care a whole lot about wide receiver size. Or, I
should say, it cares a lot more about collegiate production.

That’s why the smaller Wan’Dale Robinson was still a 92nd to 93rd percentile wide
receiver in the model after he was drafted in the second round last year. The
draft capital was there, and Robinson’s production at Kentucky was fantastic.
Typically, if size is a huge concern, a player won’t get drafted all that high.
But Robinson was an early Day 2 pick.

Robinson was having a pretty underrated season before an ACL tear placed him on
injured reserve. He averaged over a 17% target share per game rate, and his yards
per route run was on par with Treylon Burks and Garrett Wilson. He just didn’t get
as much love because his season was similar to his height: short.

Rondale Moore as a top Journey Comparable for Robinson makes too much sense.
Moore’s played the majority of his snaps from the slot in the NFL, and, thus far,
has made a living as a lower average depth of target player. Those types of
players can be productive in fantasy, but we know there’s typically a capped
ceiling.

More often than not, a player in the 85th to 90th percentile will get you a
double-digit PPR season in Year 2 or Year 3. Just don’t expect a WR1 campaign.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           131
Alec Pierce
WR • Indianapolis Colts


                      77.2%                                          84.8%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.7

Journey Comparables:                               Michael Gallup
                                                   Tajae Sharpe
                                                   Jamison Crowder

All things considered, it wasn’t a bad first year for Alec Pierce. He improved on
his prospect score thanks to a points per game average that was above seven,
something we don’t always see from his tier.

At the surface, his peripheral numbers don’t look very strong. His yards per route
run rate was an ordinary 1.24, his targets per route run rate of 0.16 was arguably
even worse, and his 14.4% target share per game average was…fine.

On the plus side, it’s tough to find a situation that was worse than Pierce’s. The
Colts had the second-lowest passing yards per attempt in the league last year, and
it’s not like other wide receivers in the offense dominated. Michael Pittman, for
example, had a 1.44 yards per route run rate after getting to 1.95 the year prior.
And Pierce’s yards per route run was better than Parris Campbell’s.

Pierce’s Year 2 Model score ended up being better than expected, to be honest. His
tier hasn’t given us top-notch production consistently, but it’s reassuring to
know there’ve been some hits from the group in the past. The most notable one was
another athletic freak in Chris Godwin.

Because the market is so down on Pierce, you could consider him a buy candidate.
Why not see if things progress with a better offensive situation?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           132
Romeo Doubs
WR • Green Bay Packers


                     66.0%                                          81.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       8.6

Journey Comparables:                               Dede Westbrook
                                                   Ace Sanders
                                                   Darnell Mooney

Romeo Doubs ended up being one of the pleasant surprises of the 2022 wide receiver
class. He had just a 66th percentile Z-Prospect Score after getting selected in
the fourth round, and the model liked him, giving Doubs a nice Draft Capital
Delta.

He exceeded expectation as a rookie, but I’m not sure his profile screams
“perennial fantasy football starter.” He saw a far worse yards per route run rate
than teammate Christian Watson last season, and it was below Randall Cobb’s and
Allen Lazard’s, too. His 15.7% target share per game rate was solid for a rookie,
but, again, it’s not anything we haven’t seen before.

Similar to Pierce, the market isn’t expecting much from Doubs, so it’s no big deal
if you’d like to hold on. He’s got Darnell Mooney as a Journey Comparable, showing
us that there’s some potential for his value to rise.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           133
Tyquan Thornton
WR • New England Patriots


                     77.8%                                         77.9%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.1

Journey Comparables:                               Stedman Bailey
                                                   Leonard Hankerson
                                                   Taywan Taylor

No one liked the Tyquan Thornton selection by New England last season. The Z-
Prospect Model didn’t really love it, either, giving Thornton a -8.4% Draft
Capital Delta. Thornton’s collegiate production profile wasn’t that bad. It just
wasn’t good enough to warrant a top-50 selection.

Leave it to the Patriots.

Thornton’s score stayed pretty neutral year over year only because players in this
grouping traditionally don’t do a whole lot. If you peep the hit rate charts from
earlier in the guide, wideouts under the 80th percentile mark in the Year 2 Model
rarely give you juice in fantasy football. Thornton’s still under that, and for
good reason — his yards per route run rate was fourth-worst among 40-plus target
rookie wide receivers since 2011.

Thornton looks like someone the fantasy community got right. And by that, I mean
he’s got a very, very small chance to be a significant contributor.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           134
Jameson Williams
WR • Detroit Lions


                     95.1%                                            76.8%
                 Z-Prospect Score                             Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.7

Journey Comparables:                               Josh Doctson
                                                   Mike Williams
                                                   Jonathan Baldwin

We ran into this issue in the Year 2 Model last season with Travis Etienne. You
have a great prospect who barely plays as a rookie, and since the model is
production-based, that player takes a big hit.

With that being said, I’ve got to at least state what the numbers say: Among the
49 Year 2 Model wide receivers in the 70th to 80th percentile, only two were able
to give us a season in Year 2 or Year 3 with 10 or more PPR points per game.

If you’ve got Jameson Williams on your dynasty roster, that should make you a
little nervous.

Fortunately, one of those players who broke free was Mike Williams, a Journey
Comparable for Jameson (we’re calling them by their first names now so no one is
confused). Mike entered the NFL with a super high prospect score after being
selected seventh overall, but he struggled early thanks to injury.

Sound familiar?

I’d likely not be aggressive in pursuing Williams because having a truly great
season over the next two years is unlikely given history. At least he has the
tools and ability to get there, and there’s reason his Year 2 Model score is so
low. You can’t say that about the vast majority of wideouts who ranked similarly.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           135
Skyy Moore
WR • Kansas City Chiefs


                     85.5%                                            76.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.7

Journey Comparables:                               Andy Isabella
                                                   DJ Chark
                                                   Terrace Marshall

Well, this seems fitting. I liked Andy Isabella when he entered the league. I
liked Terrace Marshall when he entered the league. And I liked Skyy Moore when he
entered the league.

Goodnight, sweet prince.

The odds that Skyy Moore becomes someone you love for fantasy purposes are slim.
He scored just 2.7 PPR points per game as a rookie. He had a well below average
yards per team pass attempt rate within an offense that lacked higher-end
alternatives at wide receiver.

If you want to look at this more colorfully, his yards per route run rate was
better than most other Chiefs wide receivers. And he led qualified KC wideouts in
targets per route run. So maybe there’s something there? Maybe?

Chances are — and it pains me to type this — there’s not.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           136
David Bell
WR • Cleveland Browns


                     81.8%                                         73.6%
                Z-Prospect Score                              Year-2 Model Score

Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.1

Journey Comparables:                               Bryan Edwards
                                                   Tyler Johnson
                                                   Dyami Brown

David Bell was a hyper-productive wideout coming out of Purdue last season. The Z-
Prospect Model liked him more than NFL teams seemed to, giving him a strong Draft
Capital Delta.

And a swing and a miss.

Bell had high-variance comparables entering the league, and it’s looking like the
lower-end of his range of outcomes is going to hit. It’s quite similar to his top-
two Journey Comparables — they’re guys with great collegiate analytical profiles
who may not have gotten the draft capital the fantasy community wanted. Now,
they’re toast.

I really wouldn’t expect a bounce-back of some sort from Bell. His 0.70 yards per
route run rate is sixth-worst among 30-plus target rookie wideouts since 2011.

You know how many wide receivers have given fantasy managers sustained production
with such low efficiency per route run since 2011?

None.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                           137
     Closing
     In college, I had a professor who would allow his students to bring a
     cheat sheet the size of a notecard to every exam. The night before a test,
     I’d ll that bad boy up with notes that seemed only readable through a
     magnifying glass.

     I didn’t know what I’d be answering on those tests. I just knew that the
     more information I had in front of me, the better o I’d be.

     It’s sort of like this prospect guide. Except instead of a notecard, you get
     a PDF that’s more than 130 pages long.

     The Z-Prospect Model, the Year 2 Model…they’re not going to give you
     every answer to the rookie draft test. Like the college cheat sheet, the
     models are there for guidance. They’re providing you with a baseline.

     And it’s a baseline that the majority of your leaguemates won’t have.

     As I retreat back into my parent’s basement to improve my DPS skill
     rating in Overwatch, I want you to remember that.

     This isn’t about being awless. It’s about being better than the people
     you play fantasy football with.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2023 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: Z-Prospect Model | Year 2 Model                                       138


                                             ff
                fl
fi
