Hey There!
It’s been a minute. How’ve you been? Make any dynasty trades that
you’ll probably regret over the last month and a half?

Same.

At least the NFL Draft happened, so now there’s more opportunity for us
to reshape those rosters.

And speaking of reshaping, this guide got a little post-draft makeover.
Portions of it are the same as the pre-draft version — the Year 2 Model
section is unchanged, as is the breakdown of what goes into the ZAP
Model — but there are important modi cations to note:

• All draft pro les now include an updated ZAP Model score along with
  their Draft Capital Delta risk pro les. (Only drafted players have Draft
  Capital Delta risk pro les.)

• Relevant, higher-end rookies have an updated pro le breakdown that
     talks about the player’s new outlook. On a player’s pro le page, you’ll
     see the word “update” before their blurb, designating new information
     about the player.

• Tight end ZAP scores are now part of the guide. You can nd them in
     the Prospect Pro les section.

• The rookie rankings cheatsheet is redone, and the rookie rankings
     notes are updated, too.

• A new ZAP Model cheatsheet was created to provide a snapshot of
     how the model views each player.




Ready to own some rookie drafts?




                                                                               1


                                                   fi
                                              fi
                                         fi
                               fi
                       fi
            fi
       fi
fi
JJ Zachariason | 2024 Edition
                            2
By viewing this digital product, you agree that under no circumstances shall you use this digital product or
any portion of this digital product for anything but your own personal use and reference. For the avoidance
of doubt, you shall not copy, re-sell, sublicense, rent out, share or otherwise distribute this digital product,
 or any other Late-Round Fantasy Football digital product, whether modi ed or not, to any third party. You
        agree not to use any derivative of Late-Round Fantasy Football’s products in a way which might be
         detrimental to Late-Round Fantasy Football or damage Late-Round Fantasy Football’s reputation.




                                                                                                              3


                                                             fi
Contents
Introduction ............................................5

The ZAP Model ...........................................8
      Overview .......................................................8

      The Wide Receiver Model .......................................12

      The Running Back Model ........................................16

      The Tight End Model ...........................................19

      Historical Results ............................................21

      Draft Capital Delta ...........................................24

      Adding Subjectivity ...........................................26

2024 Prospect Profiles .................................28
      Overview ......................................................28

      Key Terms .....................................................29

      Running Back ..................................................30

      Wide Receiver .................................................59

      Tight End .....................................................98

The Year 2 Model .......................................99
      Overview ......................................................99

      Journey Comparables ..........................................103

2024 Year 2 Model Profiles ............................105
      Overview .....................................................105

      Key Terms ....................................................106

      Running Back .................................................107

      Wide Receiver ................................................117

Closing ...............................................136

Rankings ..............................................137
      Rookie Rankings ..............................................137

      ZAP Model Rankings ...........................................138

      Rookie Rankings Notes ........................................139




                                                                          4
Introduction
My daughter’s now in kindergarten, and she’s learning how to read and
write. She’ll do what her teacher calls “brave spelling”, where she’ll
sound out a word, say it aloud a few times, and then do her best to
correctly write it out. It’s easy to have doubts at ve years old, so
empowering her to go for it — to be brave — is important.

We were hanging out one evening when she enthusiastically told me that
the letters “T” and “H” combine to make a “TH” sound, like in the word
“the”. She had no idea that was a thing before learning it in school that
day. Proud, I asked her to spell “that”, and, of course, she nailed it.

The next day, I had her spell the word “garage” on the way to the bus
stop, just to test her skills out. It was, unsurprisingly, a struggle. “G…”
she started. “G…A…R…J?” she continued.

It was a good brave spelling try, but she wasn’t quite there.

She will be, though. Someday.

Because she’s learning. She’s getting better.

More importantly, she’s eager to get better.

It’s really easy to stop this process of obsessive learning as an adult.
Most of us aren’t going to school. We’re not forced to read books. We
know how to perform basic functions to survive in the real world, and
that’s good enough. What’s the point in trying to overachieve at our job if
the companies we work for aren’t going to give us a reasonable pay
bump anyway?

In the end, learning involves passion. My daughter doesn’t just learn
because she’s forced to. She learns because she wants to.

Fantasy football is my passion. As nerdy as that is to say, I freaking love




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                             5


                                       fi
                this game about football.

                And I’m always looking for ways to be better at it.

                A handful of years ago, I created a couple of mathematical models that
                helped me navigate my dynasty fantasy football rookie drafts. (Did I
                                                                                                       The Early
                mention that I’m a nerd?) Fantasy football is a game about football, sure,      Prospect Models
                but it’s a game about numbers, too. And it only seemed reasonable to
                                                                                              The rst version of the prospect model had
                think that numbers could help us gure out the best prospects in a given       some hits, like Aaron Jones and, to a lesser
                draft class.                                                                    degree, Kenny Golladay. But there wasn’t
                                                                                                  much substance to it all, and repeating
                                                                                                                    success was di cult.
                The phrase “help us” is key there. Nothing in football analysis is perfect,
                whether you’re talking data or lm breakdowns. Your favorite scout
                doesn’t bat a thousand, and neither does your preferred statistics geek.

                A mathematical model won’t give you all the answers. It’ll just get you
                closer to the answers. And, when you’re playing a game like fantasy
                football against other humans, that edge is usually all you need.



                        You just need to be a little bit better than your
                        competition.
                Those initial models I created? Yeah, uh, they were trash. They were
                 aming piles of garbage.

                That’s OK. Because I kept learning.

                There were multiple xes made to those rst models, culminating with
                the Z-Prospect Model that a lot of you have read about over the last
                couple of years. That model helped us gure out the best running back
                and wide receiver values from the last two draft classes. Through
                probabilistic thinking, we — readers and myself included — were able to
                select Isiah Pacheco as a late-round gem. We were higher than the
                market on Jayden Reed last season. We understood that De’Von
                Achane’s size was somewhat of a concern, but his landing spot and
                production pro le were elite.

                The Z-Prospect Model has been helpful. The results have been there.




                Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
                Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                      6


                                                  fi
                                             fi
                                        fi
                                   fi
                         fi
                   fi
          ffi
     fi
fl
But I did some brave spelling this o season.

And it led to some very cool, very new, and very worthwhile discoveries.

Introducing the ZAP Model.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                          7


                       ff
The ZAP Model
Overview
The Z-Prospect Model isn’t gone. It’s just improved.

You can think of the ZAP Model — which stands for Zachariason-
Adjusted Prospect Model — as a V2. It’s like Charmander turning into
Charmeleon. We’re not quite to Charizard yet, but we’re getting there.

A lot of the same inputs are in this upgraded model, but some xes were
made to make things simpler and, in the end, better.

The goal of the ZAP Model is the same as the Z-Prospect one.



       It’s trying to predict how well an offensive player
       will perform in fantasy football across his rst
       three seasons in the league.
The thought process behind this mission is that you’re going to have a
general idea of how good a player is after his rst three years as a pro.
Late-career breakouts happen, but not frequently.

You can measure three-year success in a lot of di erent ways. Should we
focus on a player’s raw fantasy total during the timeframe? His average
points per game across the three seasons?

There’s no singular “best” way, in my eyes, but I used the infamous B2S
method for the ZAP Model.

Come again?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                          8


                                                    fi
                                            fi
                                       ff
                                  fi
B2S means “best two seasons”. It looks at a player’s rst three years in
the NFL, takes his top-two seasons in points per game in point per
reception (PPR) leagues, and it averages those seasons out.

Imagine a world where a wide receiver scored 11 points per game as a
rookie, 12 points per game as a second-year player, and 15 points per
game as a third-year one. With B2S, we’d throw out the rookie-season
number, and we’d averaged the 12 and 15 rates together. His B2S, then,
would be 13.5.

You can certainly run into issues with season-long points per game
averages. If a player only plays two games, but he scores 24 points per
game in those contests, are we to assume that he’d maintain that pace
across a full 17-game season?

That doesn’t seem logical.

In order to get genuine and reasonable averages, there’s a minimum
threshold of eight games that needs to be met by a player for his season
to count. Otherwise, the player is taking a zero for that season.

Going back to our example, if that wideout had only played ve games
during his second year in the league and at least 12 in his other two,
then his B2S wouldn’t be 13.5. It’d be 13. Rather than taking his second
season as one of the data points to average, we’d toss that and look at
his rookie season where he played more than eight games.

This is cool and all (maybe “cool” isn’t the right descriptor), but the
question you — I — need to be asking is: How do we actually predict a
player’s B2S? How do we get to the point where any of this matters?

I’ve worked with a lot of college football data over the years. With that
experience, I’ve been able to put together formulas at running back,
wide receiver, and tight end that do e ectively tell us who the best
prospects are in each class for fantasy purposes.

And I know that because of testing.

With any model, you want to make sure it works. Anyone can throw some




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                           9


                                                  fi
                                           fi
                           ff
     numbers together and claim to have an answer. If those numbers aren’t
     meaningful — if they’re not solving anything — then what’s the point?

     This is where draft capital starts to play a role in this story.

     Draft capital is simply where a player was selected in the NFL Draft.
     Bijan Robinson had top-10 draft capital last year. Puka Nacua was a Day
     3 pick, so his draft capital was much lower.



             Hypothetically, if NFL teams were brilliant at
             scouting, then we wouldn’t need tools to help us
             during our rookie drafts.
     We could instead just look at an NFL Draft board and select players
     based on where they were picked. The rst running back would be the
     RB1, the second running back the RB2, and so on.

     When testing my models, draft capital is the rst thing I test against. It’s
     the rst thing I look at to know whether or not the models are
     worthwhile. If the model is no better at predicting B2S than draft capital
     itself, then, again…what’s the point?

     Each prospect model that you’ll read about is better at predicting B2S
     than draft capital itself.

     This is probably a good time to point out who is being tested, eh? Which
     players am I looking at here?

     The wide receiver and running back models look at all players who were
     invited to the NFL Combine or who were drafted since 2011. There’s
     typically a ton of overlap there — if a player gets drafted, he usually was
     a combine participant. But we get one or two guys each season who sort
     of get drafted out of nowhere.

     The tight end model is a bit di erent, as it looks only at drafted players at
     the position. More on that later.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               10


                                         fi
                                   fi
                        ff
fi
Where were we again? Oh, right. Draft capital.

The models themselves are more helpful to look at for B2S purposes
than draft capital itself. But what really takes them to the next level is
when draft capital becomes an actual input into the models.

Look. My goal isn’t to predict where a running back or wide receiver will
get drafted. It’s not to tell you if a player should get scooped up in Round
2 or Round 5 of the NFL Draft. There are plenty of analysts who are great
at that.

That’s not my game.



        My game is to help you win at fantasy football.
        Period.
                                                                                    Drafting Before
The last time I checked, there’s no medal awarded for ignoring draft                       the Draft
capital when making a selection during your rookie draft. Some rookie
drafts do happen before the NFL Draft goes down, sure, but the vast            Most leagues have their rookie drafts after
                                                                                  the NFL Draft concludes, but consider
majority of league drafts occur when Roger Goodell’s bro hugs are in the
                                                                                 joining one where rookie drafts happen
rearview.                                                                         beforehand. You can obtain some huge
                                                                                  values if you’ve done enough studying.

Why would we not use that information?

People may not want to hear this, but draft capital is the single most
important factor in the ZAP Model. NFL teams are putting millions and
millions of dollars into their draft-day decisions. They have teams of
scouts and analytics people helping them optimize those choices. I’m
just a dude living in my mom’s basement.

Why would I ignore that input?

The ZAP Model works without draft capital, but it’s lightyears better with
it. And it’s what really makes it a powerful tool.

To be clear, though, we’re not trying to just beat the NFL during our
rookie drafts. Being more predictive than draft capital alone is great and




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                   11
all, but it’s more helpful to be better than our actual competition — our
leaguemates.

Fortunately, the ZAP Model is better at predicting B2S than rookie draft
average draft position (ADP) as well. In other words, if you were to
blindly follow the ZAP Model instead of some ADP data — which is
formulated by the fantasy football masses — then you’d come out on
top more often than not.

Cool? Cool.

You ready to learn about what goes into this thing now?


The Wide Receiver Model
Breakout Age is a commonly used metric for wide receivers in the
numbers-driven prospecting space. It’s based on the idea that a player
who produces early in his collegiate career is likely better than a player
who only produces late. If a 10-year-old can play Canon in D on the
piano the same way a 17-year-old can, chances are, when both piano
players hit 20, the 10-year-old will be better.

To calculate Breakout Age, most look at the age of a player when he hits
a certain threshold in Dominator Rating. To put that another way, they’ll
look at how old a player was when he matched or exceeded a particular
percentage of team receiving production.

Despite Breakout Age being part of my earlier models — it got signal —
I’ve always had issues with it. The main one being that it’s too binary. It’s
too black and white. A wideout could be this close to hitting the proper
threshold, but, if he didn’t, he’d be lumped in with the Joe Shmo who
caught three passes all season long.

The ZAP Model at wide receiver doesn’t rely on Breakout Age. Instead,
I’ve developed a di erent methodology called Breakout Score.

A player’s Breakout Score at wide receiver is determined by his age
when hitting multiple adjusted receiving yards per team pass attempt
thresholds.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               12


       ff
Yeah, I’m going to need to explain that.

Receiving yards per team pass attempt is exactly what you think it is. It
looks at a player’s receiving yards in a given season, and it divides that
by the number of pass attempts his team threw. It’s one of the cleanest,
most-predictive metrics you can nd at wide receiver.

The “adjusted” piece is telling you that the player’s receiving yards per
team pass attempt rate is being xed — adjusted — for both games
played (prorated) and strength of competition.

In order for a season to count towards a wide receiver’s Breakout Score,
he needed to have played at least six games. Because, remember, we’re
looking at yards per team pass attempt on a per-game basis here. That
at least gives us somewhat of a sample to work o of.

As it pertains to competition — that piece isn’t as complicated as you
might think. A player hitting high-end marks in receiving yards per team
pass attempt at Alabama is much more impressive than a player doing
the same thing at South Alabama. No shade to any Jaguars out there —
we just know Alabama is a powerhouse program. Understanding where a
wide receiver played collegiate ball and where he produced (a lot of
players transfer these days) is key, and the model adjusts for that.



       Breakout Score has a much stronger correlation to
       B2S than Breakout Age does. And it makes the ZAP
       Model a lot more effective.
Another production-based piece to the model is kind of an obvious-yet-
untapped one: fantasy points per game.

Generally speaking, when a player has a higher fantasy points per game
(PPR) average in college, he’ll have a higher one in the NFL, too. When
that’s adjusted for the school he went to and the number of pass
attempts his team had, you get a Fantasy Points Score.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            13


                                      ff
                          fi
                     fi
     Lastly, when it comes to the production-focused stu , there’s rushing
     yards. This doesn’t get as much weight in the model as receiving yards
     per team pass attempt (Breakout Score) or fantasy points per game
     (Fantasy Points Score), but it does help a wide receiver out.

     When a player is used in a lot of di erent ways at the collegiate level, it’s
     likely because his coaches want to put the ball in his hands. In college
     football, you’ll often see some of the best players return punts and kicks.
     Or you’ll see top wide receivers get more work than usual as runners.
     That’s because those are low-risk ways to give playmakers the rock.



             This is probably why something as simple as
             rushing yards helps the model. Because it’s not
             only telling us that a player is versatile. It’s telling
             us that he’s talented.
     So, on the production end of things, that’s really what we’re working with
     at wide receiver. There’s Breakout Score, which focuses solely on
     adjusted and prorated receiving yards per team pass attempt. There’s
     fantasy points per game, which helps create a Fantasy Points Score. And
     then there’s just a little bit of rushing production sprinkled on top.

     A couple of other factors formulate a wide receiver’s ZAP score.

     Early-declare status is one.

     There’s been a lot of controversy around the predictability of early-
     declare status. Maybe there’s not a lot of chatter about the topic at the
     dinner table, but it’s out there.

     The big-brained thinking around early-declare status isn’t much
     di erent than something like Breakout Age: If a player decides to leave
     college early — if he declares early for the draft — chances are, that
     player is better than one who chooses to stick around another year.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               14


                                               ff
                            ff
ff
Why would a wide receiver want to forgo his Senior season for the NFL?
Probably because he’s projected to get drafted fairly high, right? And the
only way he’d be slotted to go early in the NFL Draft is if he was good at
the game.

That’s why early-declare status gets a little bit of weight.

Name, image, and likeness (NIL) deals are more than likely going to shift
the importance of early-declare status as the years go on. When a player               Early-Declare
can make millions in college, he may actually want to just hang out there                   Changes
for a minute rather than going pro. So there’s a chance early-declare
status becomes more and more obsolete with future model xes.                 Over the last two seasons — aligning closely
                                                                                  to when college athletes started getting
                                                                              endorsement deals — we have indeed seen
For now, it’s an input. It’s not a massive input — not the way many in the           the percentage of early-declare wide
analytics world view it — but it’s an input.                                           receivers at the NFL Combine drop.



One last thing: Teammate Score. When a wide receiver plays alongside
high-caliber wide receiver teammates in college, it seems to matter. It’s
not a complex calculation, but know that teammate quality isn’t
irrelevant within the ZAP Model at wide receiver.

After joining all of these things — age-adjusted production metrics,
early-declare status, and Teammate Score — draft capital gets layered
on top. Those factors, then, create a wide receiver’s ZAP score.

Wait a second. Is that…is that athleticism’s music?

Some may be wondering when NFL Combine measurables come into
play.

At wide receiver, they don’t.

That may sound crazy. Shouldn’t a bigger-bodied, physically-gifted wide
receiver be highly sought after?

Not necessarily.

Subjectively, you probably would want an enormous and athletic wide
receiver on your team over a tiny and slow one.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                   15


                                                   fi
       But it’s very rare for completely unathletic wide
       receivers to get drafted early in the rst place.
Part of the reason size and athleticism aren’t a big deal in the wide
receiver model is because those things are likely already captured in
draft capital. And draft capital is in the wide receiver model.

Not only that, but wide receivers do di erent jobs on a football eld.
Cooper Kupp doesn’t win the same way DK Metcalf does. Keenan Allen
doesn’t do the same things Mike Evans does. Metcalf and Evans are
more physically dominant, and even though they’re highly productive as
pros, Kupp and Allen are, too.

If a player completely bombs the NFL Combine — and I’m talking like,
15th percentile marks across the board — you’d probably want to
remove that player from your consideration set. Chances are, though,
that same player won’t have good draft capital, and he likely wouldn’t
have had the best college production pro le. So, in the end, the lack of
athleticism and size doesn’t matter much because more important
dynamics weren’t going his way.

This is why it was di cult to knock Devonta Smith’s size when he was
entering the league in 2021. Was his low BMI a concern? Slightly, I
suppose. But Smith had an absurd production pro le while being
selected 10th overall. To me, the biggest knock was the fact that he
wasn’t an early-declare wide receiver, not the fact that he’s a skinny
dude. He ended up grading out as an elite player in the model as a
result.


The Running Back Model
De’Von Achane and Jahmyr Gibbs broke everyone’s models in 2023. Or,           Achane’s Unique
that’s what analytics haters on social media want you to think.                          Size
Size matters at running back. The vast majority of high-end running back     De’Von Achane is the only running back in
                                                                           the ZAP Model database who was drafted in
seasons in fantasy football have come from backs who weighed in            the top-100 of the NFL Draft while weighing
around 210 pounds or more.                                                          under 190 pounds at the combine.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                16


                                                    fi
                                         fi
                                    fi
                               fi
                          ff
        ffi
     And, yeah, a statistic like that is de nitely skewed by sample size. There
     are more running backs in the NFL who are above, say, 200 pounds than
     below that mark. And of the sub-200-pounders, most weren’t drafted
     very high. Most weren’t looked at as good prospects.

     But even when you adjust for all of that, size still comes in as a factor for
     fantasy backs. And it’s a part of the ZAP Model.

     This isn’t my opinion, either. I actually think plenty of 190-pound running
     backs could’ve been ne as fantasy assets through the years. It’s just
     that, in general, they don’t see as much work. Volume drives fantasy
     football, so if coaches have some inherent weight biases, then we need
     to as well.



             This doesn’t mean that smaller running backs
             won’t look favorable in the ZAP Model.
     Jahmyr Gibbs, in fact, had an amazing score in last year’s guide, and it
     looks almost identical within this revamped formula. Achane sat in a
     great tier, too.

     Because there’s more to this thing than just size.

     Just like at wide receiver, the running back ZAP Model has a Breakout
     Score. Instead of it being focused on receiving yards per team pass
     attempt, though, it looks at total yards per team play. It’s a similar
     metric, but total yards per team play considers all yards created by a
     player on o ense before dividing that number by the total pass and rush
     attempts made by a team in a given year.

     A running back’s Breakout Score essentially gives us an age-adjusted
     look at total yards per team play. It doesn’t get as much weight in the
     model as Breakout Score does for wide receivers, but it’s a new and
     important feature to a running back’s overall prospect tally.

     The only other production metric used in the running back model is an
     oldie but a goodie: reception share.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               17


                             fi
               fi
ff
     If you’ve noticed, all of the metrics I’ve talked about thus far are team-
     focused. They’re market share-related statistics. Something like yards
     per game might work in some models, but, typically, a metric like that
     isn’t all that predictive in college football. Because collegiate o enses
     di er dramatically from one unit to the next.

     The 2023 Liberty Flames, for example, threw the ball 21.6 times per
     game. The Hawaii Rainbow Warriors had nearly double that amount.
     Would it really be fair to compare a pass-catcher from one of those
     teams to the other? Of course not. Players on Hawaii would have an
     easier time gobbling up receiving numbers.

     With reception share, you’re analyzing the percentage of receptions a
     player had within his o ense. It gives us much more of an apples to
     apples comparison from one player to the next.

     In the ZAP Model’s case, a player’s best-season in reception share is
     what’s being counted. And that’s on a per-game basis with a minimum of
     six games played in a season.

     Unlike the wide receiver model, there is one NFL Combine measurable
     that the running back ZAP Model likes: 40-yard dash time.

     Don’t you roll your eyes at me!

     Technically, raw 40 times aren’t all that helpful. What is helpful is Speed
     Score, or weight-adjusted 40 time. Back in the day, Bill Barnwell thought
     of the metric after recognizing that not all 40-yard dashers are alike. It’s
     more impressive when a 240-pound running back runs a 4.4 40 versus a
     190-pound one.

     And the model mostly agrees.

     For reference, a solid Speed Score is typically around 100. When a
     running back is at or below 92, his ZAP score starts to get dinged. When
     a back gets over the 112 mark, the opposite happens. So the model
     really only looks at the extremes with Speed Score — most players are
     not impacted by it whatsoever.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              18


                                                          ff
                ff
ff
          Before adding draft capital on top, there are two more things that the
          running back model looks at. The rst is draft-day age. We have a
          Breakout Score for running backs, yes, but if a back is older when he’s
          drafted, that’s not a good sign.

          We’ve also got a Teammate Score. Similar to the wide receiver model, if
          a running back played with a reasonably talented teammate, his score
          gets boosted a tad — players in those situations may naturally have a
          tougher time posting strong numbers.

          So, to recap, it’s size (weight), age-adjusted total yards per team play
          (Breakout Score), prorated reception share, Speed Score, draft-day age,
          Teammate Score, and draft capital.

          Those are the ingredients that create a running back’s ZAP score.


          The Tight End Model
          My prospecting through numbers e orts, for years, had been channeled
          towards wide receivers and running backs. Those positions mean the
          most to fantasy football. Why wouldn’t I put a lot of time and energy into
           guring them out?

          The tight end position was feeling a little lonely.

          So, last o season, I set out to solve that equation.

          Tight end is just a di erent beast when compared to wide receiver and
          running back. Fewer of them are starting each week in fantasy football,
          so we’re working o of di erent sample sizes. Not only that, but the
          position has really transformed through the years — that can make
          samples more di cult to work with.

          During the winter and spring months of 2023 — we’re talking less than a            The Best in the
          year ago, depending on when you’re reading this thing — I concocted                     Database
          some form of a tight end model. And I shared it with Late-Round Fantasy
                                                                                           Any guesses as to which tight end was
          Football newsletter subscribers.                                                 viewed as the top prospect since 2015
                                                                                       according to the ZAP Model? Yeah. It’s Kyle
                                                                                                                            Pitts.
          It, honestly, was a hit.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                  19


     ff
fi             ffi   ff   ff   ff    fi   ff
          The model loved Sam LaPorta last year. It had Michael Mayer in a clear
          tier below him, when the market suggested otherwise. Luke Musgrave
          and Tucker Kraft were looked at favorably, too.

          There’s some back-patting going on here, yes. You’re not mistaken. And
          I feel weird about it. Anyone else feel weird?

          The reason for it, though, is because, without the 2023 season, I’m not
          sure I’d have the con dence to publish the tight end model here in
          2024. One year probably shouldn’t make or break that con dence, but
          here we are. I’m only human.

          As I mentioned, there’s a di erent type of sample to work o of with tight
          ends. Plenty of them end up just being o ensive line extensions in the
          NFL. There aren’t many true di erence-making pass-catchers at the
          position. And, in fantasy football, we’re starting just one of them in our
          standard lineup. That means fewer of them are relevant for fantasy
          purposes.

          All of these things — and data limitations — led me to working with a
          di erent overall sample compared to running back and wide receiver.
          Instead of analyzing all tight ends who’ve been to the NFL Combine
          since 2011, the tight end model assesses tight ends who’ve been
          drafted since 2015.

          The tight end model is a little more simplistic than the other two.
          Because tight ends typically aren’t giving us monster rookie-season
          numbers, measuring o of B2S isn’t as useful. The model, instead,
          measures against a tight end’s top season in PPR points per game
          across his rst three in the league.

          Draft capital, of course, is part of the tight end process, but it actually
          gets a little less weight than it does with wide receiver and running back.

          Athletic measurables get more weight.

          Well, one athletic measurable does: Speed Score.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                             20


                                                               ff
                                                          fi
                                       ff
                                  ff
                             ff
                        ff
                   fi
     fi
ff
       Bigger, faster tight ends tend to be better at
       fantasy football than smaller, slower tight ends.
There’s no Breakout Score in the tight end model. Draft-day age is a
factor, but age-adjusted production is calculated a little di erently.
Rather than using a metric like receiving yards per team pass attempt or
total yards per team play to come up with a Breakout Score, the model
looks at yards per route run numbers. It takes a tight end’s average yards
per route run (minimum 50 routes run) across all of his collegiate
seasons.

That means the tight end model really just consists of draft capital,
Speed Score, yards per route run, and draft-day age. There’s more to it
— there are particular combinations and thresholds a tight end can hit
to boost his score. Like, for instance, a tight end being drafted in the
top-150 with a favorable Speed Score…he gets a bump in his prospect
score for that. Those are the types of things the model is analyzing. But
those four inputs make up the model in totality.


Historical Results
One beautiful part about prospecting through data is that you can test
and see if your process is working.




The table above provides the results of the wide receiver model from
2011 through 2021. The reason 2022 and 2023 aren’t part of the




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            21


                                               ff
          dataset is because those players haven’t played three years in the
          league yet.

          The left column shows ZAP scores. As you can probably guess, ZAP
          scores range from 0 all the way to 100, with 100 being the most
          impressive. To make things consumable, the scores are bucketed in
          increments of ve.

          The middle of the table tells you the percentage of players from that
          score’s group to have averaged a particular points per game mark in
          B2S.

          Pretend a wide receiver scored 10, 12, and 17 PPR points per game
          across his rst three seasons in the league. And assume he played every
          possible game.

          As we know, with B2S, we’d throw out that average of 10 and focus
          solely on his outputs of 12 and 17. Averaging those out, the player would
          have a B2S of 14.5, placing him in the “14+” column (and the ones
          below “14+”) but not the “16+” one.

          Now that you’re a table-reading master, you can see that not everything
          is butter ies and rainbows with the wide receiver model. We shouldn’t
          expect it to be. It’s not going to be perfect.

          What’s most important is the high-level trends.

          As scores get worse, so do the B2S results. The vast majority of elite
          players — wideouts with B2S rates above 16 PPR points per game —
          have ZAP scores in the 90s. Meanwhile, it’s rare for a wide receiver
          under the 60 mark to give you good production.

          Something that needs to be said: If a lower-ranked bucket appears
          better than a higher-ranked one, it doesn’t mean you would want a wide
          receiver from the group with the lower scores. There’s some variance
          when arbitrarily grouping players.

          The running back visual looks a lot like the wide receiver one…




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                           22


            fi
     fi
fl
When we get a running back over a score of 95, good things happen.
Only one running back with a score below that tally has hit the elusive
20-plus points per game mark in B2S: Alvin Kamara.

Lastly, we’ve got tight end.




Not bad!

Remember, we’re looking to predict a tight end’s top season in PPR
points per game over his rst three in the league. Since 2015, no tight
end under a score of 90 has been able to score 12 or more PPR points
per game in a season. That’ll de nitely change as we accumulate more
tight end data, but it gives us a really nice baseline to work with.

These tables are important to keep in mind as you read through the
guide. I’ll be providing scores for every relevant prospect this season,
and you can use those scores to get a rough idea of a player’s hit rate.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                          23


                     fi
              fi
Draft Capital Delta
I’ve talked a lot about draft capital and its in uence in the models. Since
it’s a big input, there’s a connection between how one of the models
sees a player and where that player was drafted.

Not only that, but good players are often beloved in both lm evaluation
and numbers-based analysis. Ja’Marr Chase has one of the best ZAP
scores in the database, but traditional scouting saw Chase as an
insanely good prospect, too. There’s an obvious overlap in the way the
model may view a player and the way the NFL — draft capital — does.

What about when there’s not?

That’s where Draft Capital Delta comes into play.

Draft Capital Delta measures the di erence between a player’s ZAP
score and where he was selected in the NFL Draft. It’s essentially
showing us how the models view a player when draft capital isn’t a
factor.

Take, for instance, Aaron Jones, owner of the highest Draft Capital Delta
in the running back database. Jones had a ZAP score of 79.5 back in
2017. Well, the ZAP Model wasn’t created then, but his score would
have been 79.5.

His draft capital score, based on going 182nd overall in the NFL Draft,
was 54.5. The di erence — the delta — between those numbers is +25.

That’s Aaron Jones’ Draft Capital Delta.
                                                                                         Small School
Favorable Draft Capital Deltas tend to lead to better outcomes in                               Studs
expected B2S. In other words, when a running back or wide receiver —
                                                                               Of all running backs selected in the top-100
tight end doesn’t have Draft Capital Delta at the moment — has a good           of the NFL Draft since 2011, the top two in
Draft Capital Delta, he ends up exceeding B2S expectation at a higher            Draft Capital Delta are David Johnson and
                                                                              Kareem Hunt. Neither player went to a Power
pace than a player with a bad Draft Capital Delta.
                                                                                                                Five school.


With previous versions of the guide, I’ve provided that raw Draft Capital
Delta number. You saw that Isiah Pacheco’s was high, and that Jonathan




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                     24


                                               fi
                                 fl
                        ff
     ff
     Mingo’s wasn’t.

     What did those numbers even mean, though?

     That was a question I asked myself — the creator of these nerdy
     prospect formulas — this past year. Draft Capital Delta is neat and can
     be helpful, but what’s the di erence between a +10 and a -3? Does it
     matter that much?

     It seems pretty random, no?

     One of the issues with displaying Draft Capital Delta so prominently over
     the last couple of seasons was that some viewed it as being just as
     important as a player’s prospect score. That shouldn’t be the case. At
     all.

     A prospect with a score of 80 and a Draft Capital Delta of +7 is not better
     than a prospect with a score of 90 and a Draft Capital Delta of -3. It’s
     just that the player with the 90 score may have a little more risk to his
     pro le, since the model is viewing him less favorably than draft capital
     itself.

     Another key point to make is that Draft Capital Delta sees a larger range
     with later-round picks than it does with earlier-round ones. That’s due to
     draft capital getting more weight in the models for early-round
     selections.

     Think of it this way: If a running back is drafted 20th overall, no matter
     what his production pro le looks like, he’s going to have a high
     probability of scoring at least some fantasy points in the NFL. That’s not
     the case for a back who’s selected in Round 4 or Round 5. We have to
     lean more on the non-draft-capital aspects to his pro le, since teams are
     largely throwing darts on Day 3.

     So, with all that being noted, moving forward, we’re throwing out the
     individual, unique Draft Capital Delta numbers per player. That’s not
     what’s important. The ZAP score is.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                             25


                                               fi
                       ff
                 fi
fi
In its place — and this only goes for drafted players, for the record —
you’ll see a more binary risk pro le. When a player has an alarming Draft
                                                                             High vs. Low Risk
Capital Delta, it’ll be called out as a “high risk” pro le. When the Draft
                                                                              at Running Back
Capital Delta is really strong, it’ll be a “low risk” outlook. For someone
                                                                               When a running back gets tagged with a
who’s neither high or low, they’ll get tagged with a “neutral” descriptor.   high- or low-risk pro le, it’s worth noting.
And this is all adjusted for draft capital.                                   Historically, low-risk running backs have
                                                                               been more than twice as good in B2S as
                                                                                                          high-risk ones.
Draft Capital Delta can help us nd gems, but it’s not the key metric we
should be working o of.


Adding Subjectivity
Dan Campbell chose to keep his o ense on the eld on fourth-and-three
in 49ers territory toward the end of this year’s NFC Championship game.
He could’ve attempted a eld goal, but, instead, he went for it.

“The analytics” said that the decision was essentially a coin ip. There
was no clear-cut, obvious answer.

“Greg from Twitter” said that Dan Campbell is a moron and that you
“have to take the points.”

The result of the play was an incomplete pass, but that conclusion isn’t
really what’s key. The process is. Campbell made a call based on the
information he had. And not all of that information was mathematical in
nature. Some of it was feel-based.

And that’s OK.

A fourth-down bot isn’t going to solve all of your problems. It’s merely
providing the probability of a particular outcome to go down. If, in the
moment, Campbell felt like his kicker wasn’t reliable, then he could —
and did — opt to go for it.

The data was there to let him know that either choice was reasonable.

You don’t have to agree with numbers all the time. I don’t agree with
numbers all the time.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                                  26


                                                 fl
                                         fi
                                    fi
                              ff
                         fi
                    fi
              fi
        ff
fi
This is a guide, and the numbers — the prospect scores — are a guide,
too.



       Seeing how a player looks in a model can be
       helpful, but I’ll never tell you to stop there. Looking
       at a player’s journey and — gasp —
       watching the player play is always a solid idea as
       well.
You can follow the prospect models and nd success.

You can likely be even better with some rational thought piled on top.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                        27


                             fi
     2024 Prospect Pro les
     Overview
     It’s rare for a running back or wide receiver to emerge as a star in the
     league without an NFL Combine invite. It certainly happens — Austin
     Ekeler and Adam Thielen both became studs after being skipped over.

     But just because there are exceptions to the rule doesn’t mean the rule
     is invalid.

     Strictly from a probability perspective, for fantasy football purposes, we
     should care most about the players who were invited to the NFL
     Combine. Period. That shouldn’t be debated.

     So that’s where the focus is at for these prospect pro les.

     There were 39 wide receivers invited to this year’s NFL Combine. There
     were 29 running backs who were awarded the same honor.



              I pro led them. Every single one of them. I looked
              at their analytical pro les, and I studied the type of
              player they may be at the next level.
     These outlooks are bound to change post-draft — and when they do, I’ll
     send you an updated version of this guide — but it’s never a bad idea to
     have a good grasp on a class before the draft happens.

     Tight end scores will be published post-draft, too. For now, the focus is
     on running back and wide receiver.

     Note: Player pro les are ordered by projected draft capital as of mid-
     February.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            28


                                               fi
                                 fi
                     fi
         fi
fi
Key Terms
ZAP Score: The score given to an incoming rookie in the ZAP Model. It’s
based on the factors outlined in the ZAP Model Overview section of this
guide. For pre-draft scores, the draft capital input is based on projected
draft capital from NFLMockDraftDatabase.com. All scores range from 0
to 100.

Breakout Score: The score given to a player for his age-adjusted
production. This is based on yards per team pass attempt for wide
receivers and total yards per team play for running backs. All scores
range from 0 to 100.

Fantasy Points Score: The score given to a wide receiver for his fantasy
point production. This is based on a player’s fantasy points per game
average adjusted for team pass attempts and program strength. All
scores range from 0 to 100.

B2S: The ZAP Model attempts to predict how well a player will do in
fantasy football across his rst three years in the league. In doing this, it
tests against the average of a player’s top-two seasons in PPR points per
game during his rst three years as a pro. This is referred to as B2S (Best
Two Seasons).

Draft Capital Delta: The di erence between a player’s ZAP score versus
where he was drafted in the actual NFL Draft. A very low Draft Capital
Delta will be displayed as a “high risk” pro le. A very high one will be
shown as a “low risk” pro le. Most players will simply be “neutral”. Draft
capital deltas will be published in the post-draft version of the guide.

Speed Score: A concept developed by Bill Barnwell to help appropriately
weight 40-yard dash times based on a player’s size. In the ZAP Model,
anything under 92 at running back is a red ag. Anything over 112 is a
positive indicator.

Statistical Comparables: Players in history who appear to have similar
analytical pro les to the player being analyzed. This is based on things
like size, age, Breakout Score, and other production metrics.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              29


                                    fl
                               fi
                   ff
                   fi
              fi
       fi
  fi
Running Back


BLAKE CORUM                                                                         79.1
                                                                                ZAP Score


RB               Michigan Wolverines (Los Angeles Rams)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’8” Weight:                     205

Statistical Comps: Clyde Edwards-Helaire • Darrell Henderson • Kendall Hunter

Update: Well, that’s not ideal, is it?

Blake Corum was drafted by the Rams, which is kind of funny, because former Ram
Darrell Henderson is one of his top comps. What’s not funny is the fantasy
football mess that this brings. With Kyren Williams coming off the season he had,
Corum’s unlikely to grab a big share of the team’s backfield.

The ZAP Model isn’t in love with him anyway. He’s a little undersized, had a
totally ordinary Speed Score, and just had solid-but-not-great marks in reception
share and Breakout Score. He’s just a clean, versatile back who can be plugged
into most offenses. He just likely won’t take over the backfields in those
offenses.

A ZAP score under 80 isn’t ideal. Only CJ Anderson, Devonta Freeman, Aaron Jones,
Myles Gaskin, James Robinson, and Kyren Williams have been able to score more than
16 PPR points per game in a season during their first three years in the league
after failing to reach an 80 ZAP score. That’s since 2011. To put that another
way, those are the only guys who gave fantasy managers a solid RB1 season within
that parameter. That’s out of over 350 backs. And players like Jones and Robinson
had way better production profiles than Corum has.

We can sit here and say that Corum is a better prospect than Kyren Williams was,
but Williams proved to be an effective runner — very effective — in 2023. We
should judge off of what we’ve seen in the league, not in college. We know that
Williams can work in this Rams’ offense.

That’s why this landing spot isn’t very good, and it’s hard to paint it
differently. He’ll need an injury to Williams in order to hit any sort of ceiling,
and Williams is still under contract with LA for another two years. It’d be tough
to spend a premium pick on Corum now.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       30
TREY BENSON                                                                              84.1
                                                                                     ZAP Score


RB               Florida State Seminoles (Arizona Cardinals)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                               Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’0” Weight:                         216

Statistical Comps: Kenyan Drake • Roy Helu • Bernard Pierce

Update: The size-speed combination is there for Trey Benson. He ran a 4.39 40-yard
dash at the NFL Combine this year at 216 pounds, giving him the second-best Speed
Score in the class. The ZAP Model is into that, but it’s not into everything about
his profile.

Benson got off to a slow start in college at Oregon after tearing his ACL as a
Freshman. He redshirted and then had only six carries during his second season as
a Duck. That led to a transfer to Florida State in 2022, where he led the
backfield in touches two seasons in a row.

Benson’s Breakout Score, partially due to the knee injury, ended up being an
average 48.2. His best season in total yards per team play was just 1.38, a number
met by 21 of the 29 running backs who were invited to the combine this year. He
also failed to reach a double-digit percentage reception share in all of his
collegiate campaigns.

Historically, players with production marks that low haven’t given us the goods in
fantasy. Since 2011 and prior to this season, here’s a list of players who were
selected between Pick 33 and Pick 100 with a sub-50 Breakout Score and a sub-10%
best-season reception share: Alex Green, Stevan Ridley, Matt Jones, Damien Harris,
Ty Davis-Price, and Kendre Miller.

Benson, who was selected 66th overall by the Cardinals, is now in that cluster.

If you want to look at this optimistically, Benson’s got by far the best athletic
profile of that group. And that’s what you’re really banking on with him.
Sometimes good size and speed is enough.

Arizona isn’t a bad place for a running back to be, either. Benson’s rookie season
might not be so hot with James Conner around, but Conner’s a free agent in 2025.
The backfield takeover could hit then.

It could go in a lot of different directions with Benson. If he falls enough in
rookie drafts, he’s not a bad potential flex play in Year 1 who could turn into a
decent starter in Year 2. I’d say to just be aware that there are some analytical
concerns, and those question marks don’t exist for all backs in this class.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                            31
JONATHON BROOKS                                                                 93.8
                                                                             ZAP Score


RB               Texas Longhorns (Carolina Panthers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                       Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’0” Weight:                  216

Statistical Comps: Kerryon Johnson • Sony Michel • CJ Prosise

Update: There was a chance that we weren’t going to see a running back hit a ZAP
score of 90 this year for the first time in its history, and then the rebuilding
Carolina Panthers took Jonathon Brooks with the 46th pick. That shot him up to
93.8.

Now we’re cookin’.

Brooks is the best running back in this class. He tore his ACL in November, ending
his season early. He finished 2023 with an impressive 1.99 total yards per team
play rate (prorated, of course), and his reception share was 11.0%. Those numbers
were the best ones he saw in college because he played behind Bijan Robinson and
Roschon Johnson prior to last season. Really, his 73.4 Breakout Score should be
higher, but a solid Teammate Score is helping him out.

Getting drafted by the Panthers could’ve been worse. Chuba Hubbard’s been
serviceable since his poor rookie season, but he wasn’t nearly the type of
prospect that Brooks is. And we kind of know what Miles Sanders is about at this
point. Hypothetically, Brooks could be a bell-cow right away for the Panthers.

But, of course, there’s the ACL. That’s the scariest part to Brooks’ situation by
far. The Panthers are in rebuild mode, so will they really feel a need to rush
Brooks back onto the field, even if reports are optimistic? Are they going to want
to give him a big workload in Year 1? If not, then you run the risk of losing
dynasty value year-over-year.

Post-2024, things should be great for Brooks. Dave Canales, Carolina’s new head
coach, ran the Buccaneers offense last season and wasn’t shy in giving Rachaad
White a true bell-cow workload. You just may have to be a little patient if you
end up snagging Brooks in your rookie draft.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                    32
BUCKY IRVING                                                                     51.0
                                                                             ZAP Score


RB               Oregon Ducks (Tampa Bay Buccaneers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                       Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’9” Weight:                  192

Statistical Comps: Mark Walton • Isaiah Pead • Tyjae Spears

Update: Things haven’t been great for Bucky Irving ever since the NFL Combine. We
knew he was on the smaller side, and then he confirmed it by weighing in at 192
pounds. He then went out and ran a 4.55 40, giving him a sub-90 Speed Score. And
that was on top of a production profile that, to the ZAP Model, wasn’t great. His
Breakout Score of 49.8 is a below-average one.

The landing spot in Tampa Bay is…interesting? If Irving gets run in the NFL, it’s
going to be as a receiving back first and foremost. His top-season in prorated
reception share is an impressive 14.1%. But that’s also something Rachaad White
does well. In fact, White has one of the best reception shares in the ZAP Model’s
history. And he’s been a good receiver so far in the NFL.

Irving is probably going to be more of a nuisance to White more than anything
else. The only sub-200-pound Day 3 backs to give fantasy managers a usable season
since 2011 have been Tarik Cohen, Andre Ellington, and Kyren Williams. Cohen was a
more dynamic receiver coming out, Ellington was out of the league in a hurry, and
Kyren Williams is just looking like an outlier. His team also took a Day 2 running
back the year after his big season.

This is just not the type of profile we want to heavily invest in.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                    33
BRAELON ALLEN                                                                  72.3
                                                                           ZAP Score


RB               Wisconsin Badgers (New York Jets)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                     Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                235

Statistical Comps: James Conner • Royce Freeman • Jeremy Hill

Update: The ZAP Model likes Braelon Allen, but after a draft process where he
didn’t run the 40, the algorithm cooled on him a bit.

There’s nothing landing spot-related in the ZAP Model, but if there was, Allen’s
score would be even lower. The Jets decided to take him at the end of the fourth
round, derailing any sort of early-career production. He’s now backing up one of
the best running backs in football in Breece Hall.

Allen could step in and perform with an injury, though. He’s had a wild football
journey. He was originally recruited as a linebacker — potentially a safety — but
ended up at running back for Wisconsin. He also skipped his Senior year of high
school and reclassified to the 2021 recruiting class, making him a 17-year-old
college Freshman.

A lot of Freshman in that scenario would sit for a bit, but Allen produced
immediately for the Badgers. He had a 1.64 total yards per team play rate that
season, a number that 15 running backs in this year’s class failed to reach across
their entire collegiate careers. Allen did that before turning 18. That’s why he
has the highest Breakout Score in the class.

That Breakout Score could be higher. He produced well enough at a young age, but
he topped out at a 1.76 total yards per team play rate. That ranked 13th-best
among backs who were at the NFL Combine this year.

Another issue with Allen is that, for a running back with such a big frame, he
doesn’t always seem to use it. His best season (minimum 100 attempts) in forced
missed tackles per rush, according to PFF’s data, was actually below average when
compared to the rest of the draft class. He was pretty mid at generating big
plays, too.

So, again, it’s a tough destination for fantasy production, but Allen’s a capable-
enough backup. The biggest issue is the Jets also took Isaiah Davis, so we can’t
even call Allen the direct handcuff to Hall.

Thanks, New York.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   34
AUDRIC ESTIME                                                                           58.7
                                                                                    ZAP Score


RB               Notre Dame Fighting Irish (Denver Broncos)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                         221

Statistical Comps: Isaiah Spiller • David Cobb • Alfred Morris

Update: We saw the right kind of year-over-year progression with Audric Estime’s
production at Notre Dame. As a Freshman, he only carried the ball seven times and
had a 0.17 prorated total yards per team play rate. That jumped up to 1.21 as a
Sophomore. He then finished off his collegiate career with a 1.99 tally in 2023.

Estime is the second-youngest running back in this year’s class, and that helped
him out in the ZAP Model. His Breakout Score of 79.3 is a top-five one among backs
who were at the combine, all thanks to a very productive Junior campaign.

The reason the model doesn’t like him more is two-fold. First, his best-season
reception share was only 8.1%, when we generally see successful backs hitting at
least the 10% mark. Second, his NFL Combine performance was weak. He’s a big guy
at 221 pounds, but his 4.71 40-yard dash still gave him a sub-90 Speed Score.

The ZAP Model now has 44 running backs who ran their 40-yard dash in 4.7 seconds
or slower. Of those 44, 38 have had a chance to play three years in the league.
And, of those 38, Theo Riddick is the only one to score more than 9 PPR points per
game in one of his first three seasons in the NFL.

Estime found himself in a crowded Broncos backfield. Javonte Williams, though, is
on the last year of his rookie deal, and Samaje Perine might not be around much
longer, either. Jaleel McLaughlin was a surprising rookie in 2023, but he’s more
of a change-of-pace type. Perhaps the Broncos want to see if Estime can be their
early-down guy after this year, which would be an OK pairing with McLaughlin.

The bottom line with Estime is that there are things that need to go his way in
order to work out in fantasy. It’s possible he gets a bigger gig for the Broncos
in 2025, but even if he does, his upside is capped due to his weaker receiving
numbers.

The word to describe Estime’s profile is “fine”.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           35
WILL SHIPLEY                                                                     67.8
                                                                              ZAP Score


RB               Clemson Tigers (Philadelphia Eagles)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                   206

Statistical Comps: Jeremy Langford • Darrynton Evans • Tevin Coleman

Update: We’re probably not going to see much Will Shipley across his first two
seasons in the NFL. The Eagles selected him in the fourth round, and, as we all
know, Philly signed Saquon Barkley to a lucrative contract over the offseason.
Their first potential out with said contract occurs in 2026.

As a player, Shipley is a do-it-all back. He just doesn’t “do it all”
exceptionally well.

Shipley’s Breakout Score of 60.5 is OK, and it’s thanks to some decent production
at Clemson as a Freshman. During his first season there in 2021, he hit a 1.24
total yards per team play rate, which just got him over the first threshold that
Breakout Score looks at. An average that low isn’t impressive for a college
Junior, but a Freshman at a big program? Not bad.

Unfortunately, Shipley never really gave us a monster season. He was better in
2022, but his final year at Clemson was plagued by injury. He played 12 games and
wasn’t 100% throughout the season, leading to a career low in total yards per team
play.

Shipley’s 12.8% best-season reception share is above the class’ mean, but so many
of his metrics point to him being an average to above-average player in the NFL.
Can he play all three downs? Sure. Will he get that chance? In Philadelphia, he’s
looking more like a very solid depth piece. He’s just a handcuff.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     36
JAYLEN WRIGHT                                                                      70.7
                                                                               ZAP Score


RB               Tennessee Volunteers (Miami Dolphins)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                         Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                    210

Statistical Comps: Anthony McFarland • Ty Chandler • DeMarco Murray

Update: Of course. Of course Jaylen Wright, who ran a sub-4.4 40-yard dash and had
the highest explosive play rate in this year’s running back class…of course he
lands with Mike McDaniel in Miami.

Of course.

The fit is clearly there. The Dolphins zone scheme allowed speedster Raheem
Mostert to lead the NFL in touchdowns last year, and De’Von Achane is coming off
the most efficient per-rush season of any moderately high-volume back in NFL
history. Jaylen Wright will do just fine when he gets an opportunity in this
offense.

And that opportunity could come sooner than people think. The Dolphins locked up
Raheem Mostert through 2025 this offseason, but they have an out with his contract
after this year. Mostert’s also 32 years old and coming off a season where he
handled 200-plus carries for the first time in his career. We can’t guarantee
health in 2024.

The Dolphins will maintain a split backfield, and there’s reason to believe Wright
can be part of a committee. That’s what we saw from him in college, with him never
reaching 150 carries in any season at Tennessee. Last year, he played alongside a
solid back in Dylan Sampson. That helped maximize his per-touch efficiency.

Maybe you’re upset that Wright’s going to a Dolphins team that already has a
capable young running back, but, to me, Wright was probably not going to be a
high-volume NFL back. His Breakout Score is just average compared to the rest of
this subpar class, and his best season in reception share never reached 10%. We’ve
never really seen him be a bell-cow. In turn, we needed a spot for efficiency, and
that’s exactly what we got.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                      37
MARSHAWN LLOYD                                                                           74.6
                                                                                     ZAP Score


RB               Southern California Trojans (Green Bay Packers)     Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                               Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’9” Weight:                         220

Statistical Comps: Robert Turbin • Terrance West • Storm Johnson

Update: There are plenty of MarShawn Lloyd truthers out there, so it’s a little
scary that the ZAP Model is labeling his profile as a “high risk” one. The reason
for that is because he’s the seventh-oldest back in this year’s class — he’s a
good bit over 23 — his Breakout Score is 31.2, and he never got to a 10% best-
season reception share.

Looking back to 2011, Lloyd appears to be the only 23-year-old running back in the
ZAP Model who received top-100 draft capital after failing to reach a Breakout
Score of 50 and a best-season reception share of 10%. There are 20 drafted running
backs in the model who fit that criteria, though, and Andre Ellington’s the only
one who gave us a PPR point per game season above 10.

Lloyd does have a strong athletic profile that could end up trumping all of these
numbers. That’s how it goes sometimes at running back. He’s explosive and can
generate big plays, and that could be enough to score some fantasy points. His
age-adjusted production is also lower than expected because of an ACL tear to kick
off his college career back in 2020, so we should insert some subjectivity here.

In Green Bay, Lloyd will face an uphill battle. At least in the short term. The
Packers recently signed Josh Jacobs, and Jacobs is expected to handle a lot of
work here in 2024. The Packers do have an out in 2025 with Jacobs’ contract,
however, which could present a unique opportunity for Lloyd.

Oddly, Lloyd, despite this higher-variance profile, could still end up on your
fantasy squad. The market could end up being bearish on the landing spot, but his
value has a chance to increase year-over-year if the Packers end up moving on from
Jacobs. And Matt LaFleur is no stranger to split backfields, so Lloyd still has
some opportunity to produce in Year 1. If we see him show off his big-play
ability, then we’ll feel more confident in a backfield takeover in Year 2.

Lloyd’s not a slam-dunk prospect. There are concerns here. But in drafts where
gamers focus on rookie-season production, he could be OK to snag.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                            38
RAY DAVIS                                                                     69.8
                                                                           ZAP Score


RB               Kentucky Wildcats (Buffalo Bills)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                     Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’8” Weight:               211

Statistical Comps: Ke’Shawn Vaughn • Matt Dayes • Baron Batch

Update: Ray Davis has a pretty complete production profile. His top season in
reception share is an impressive 15.6%, a number matched by just one other player
in this year’s class. His best season in total yards per team play is north of
2.0, too. Only five backs in the class got to that level.

Part of the reason Davis was able to get to those numbers was because he played
five years of college ball. He kicked things off at Temple and played two years
there. Then he went to Vandy for two seasons before finishing things off at
Kentucky in 2023. He’s now 24-and-a-half years old. And he got the best draft
capital any 24-and-a-half-year-old running back received in the ZAP Model’s
history when he was selected at Pick 128 by the Buffalo Bills.

Buffalo isn’t a bad spot for Davis. They’ve got James Cook, but Cook averaged a
63% running back rush share per game in 2023. There was room for another back in
the offense to step up, and that was usually Latavius Murray last season.

That role is probably going to be Davis’. It’ll be limited work as long as Cook is
there and healthy, but during a year where there weren’t that many ideal landing
spots for running backs, this one for Davis is fine. At a minimum, he’s a
handcuff.

It’s fine to throw a dart Davis’ way in rookie drafts, but do be aware that age is
what’s bringing down his ZAP score. It could be tougher for him to appreciate in
dynasty value, and there’s a pretty good chance that Davis won’t get any sort of
lucrative second contract in the NFL. By the time his rookie deal is up, he’ll be
pushing 29.

As a short-term handcuff-with-flex-appeal type play? Go for it.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   39
JAWHAR JORDAN                                                                       5.2
                                                                               ZAP Score


RB               Louisville Cardinals (Houston Texans)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                         Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:                    193

Statistical Comps: Diocemy Saint Juste • Raymond Calais • Joe Hill

It’s really hard to buy into Jawhar Jordan as a fantasy football contributor.

Jordan’s the fourth-smallest back in this class by weight, and he’s the tiniest by
BMI. You can reference De’Von Achane all day, but Achane had an elite production
profile.

Jordan does not.

Jordan’s Breakout Score of 18.8 ranks in the bottom-six among backs who went to
the combine this year. His best-season reception share is at just 8.5%. His best-
season in explosive run rate, per Pro Football Focus data, was below-average
despite his smaller frame. That’s because he doesn’t have blazing speed — he had a
sub-90 Speed Score thanks to a 4.56 40.

Oh, and did I mention that no running back from this year’s class is older?

Perhaps Jordan will be a role-player for some backfield, but it’s highly unlikely
that he’ll be a consistent fantasy producer.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                      40
DYLAN LAUBE                                                                            63.9
                                                                                    ZAP Score


RB               New Hampshire Wildcats (Las Vegas Raiders)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:                         206

Statistical Comps: Eric Gray • James White • Ito Smith

Update: As a reminder, there’s only one running back in the ZAP Model’s history
who was able to hit a best-season reception share above 25%. And it’s Las Vegas
Raider Dylan Laube.

Laube is at an analytical advantage in that he played for an FCS school. Being the
running back for New Hampshire isn’t the same as being the running back for
Alabama. We have to keep that in mind when we’re looking at his production
metrics. With that being said, his playing for a smaller program definitely hurt
his draft capital. His ZAP score took a hit by going 208th overall in the draft.

Laube’s got a super interesting profile, though. His 25.3% best-season reception
share is the highest the ZAP Model database has ever seen, and he had a 2.09 total
yards per team play rate, too. Since 2011, the only backs to have hit a 20%
reception share and a 2.00 total yards per team play rate after being selected
after Pick 100 have been Jacquizz Rodgers, James White, Devontae Booker, Aaron
Jones, De’Angelo Henderson, and Deuce Vaughn. Jones became a stud, White had
plenty of usability throughout his career, and even Rodgers had some, too.

Being past 24 years old is definitely a red flag for Laube. He was playing at New
Hampshire all the way back in 2019, and he didn’t really get going until 2021.
That’s why his Breakout Score sits in just the 59th percentile. You’d ideally want
a better age-adjusted profile for a guy coming from an FCS school, right?

The Raiders are a good place for him to start his career. Zamir White is looking
like the 2024 starter, and he’s not the type of player to capture a 15% target
share in an NFL offense. Laube can play that pass-catching role while trying to
create more of an early-down workload. It’s doubtful he ever becomes a 200-carry
back, but a 100-carry one? With a double-digit percentage target share? That’s in
his range of outcomes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           41
DILLON JOHNSON                                                               14.5
                                                                         ZAP Score


RB               Washington Huskies (Undrafted)          Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’0” Weight:              217

Statistical Comps: Rex Burkhead • Dan Herron • Dare Ogunbowale

Dillon Johnson started his collegiate journey at Mississippi State, where he
played three years under the late Mike Leach. There, he wasn’t used much as a
runner — he failed to reach 500 rushing yards in each season — but, as we’ve seen
before with Leach running backs, Johnson was deployed often as a pass-catcher. He
hauled in reception shares of 9.7%, 12.6%, and 13.3% over his three seasons as a
Bulldog.

Johnson transferred to Washington for his final season, and that reception share
dropped to 6.4%. Considering it was a new system, that’s something to note. He
did, however, see a nice uptick in rushing usage, resulting in his first and only
college campaign with a total yards per team play rate above 1.00.

The prospect model doesn’t mind Johnson versus projected draft capital because of
his good size and strong best-season reception share. However, you have to
question how he accumulated those numbers. The system at Mississippi State
undoubtedly boosted his receiving, and, at Washington, he wasn’t that great of a
runner. In fact, among all backs in this year’s class, Johnson ranked second-worst
in best-season avoided tackles per rush and yards after contact per attempt, and
he had the worst explosive run rate. That showed up at the combine when he ran a
4.68 40, almost dipping below a 90 Speed Score.

Could he come through in fantasy as more of a handcuff type? Probably. He can play
all three downs, realistically. He just doesn’t appear to be special.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   42
CODY SCHRADER                                                                17.9
                                                                          ZAP Score


RB               Missouri Tigers (Undrafted)             Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                    Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’9” Weight:             202

Statistical Comps: Ralph Webb • Chase Edmonds • Sincere McCormick

Cody Schrader got his college football start at Truman State University, a
Division II program in *Googles* Missouri. He had one monster year there before
becoming a Mizzou walk-on in 2022.

Schrader’s a unique prospect for the model because his numbers are a little
inflated after playing D2 ball. Without accounting for his huge 2021 season at
Truman State, he’s a fairly ordinary prospect. When you consider it, he looks a
good bit better, with his Breakout Score going from 19 to about 65.

The ZAP Model is considering his production at The Tru (they definitely don’t call
it that), but it’s still not making Schrader an exceptional prospect. He did hit a
total yards per team play rate of 2.08 at Mizzou this past year, giving him one of
the higher marks in the class. Thanks to his Truman State numbers, his best-season
in reception share is strong, too, at 13.1%.

But Schrader is well over 24 years old right now, folks. He’s the oldest running
back in this year’s class. That’s a problem. Because, of the six running backs in
the ZAP Model who entered the league at Schrader’s age or older — yes, there have
only been six of them — none scored even two PPR points per game during their
first three years in the league.

The NFL Combine also wasn’t particularly kind to Schrader. He ended up running a
4.61, joining a few other backs with an 89-something Speed Score. That’s under the
threshold that the ZAP Model wants to see, so that hurts Schrader’s outlook.

Schrader’s production marks really aren’t bad, but he’s going to be a short-term
investment for your dynasty squads. You really need him to fall to a spot that
gives him a shot at immediate production, or his NFL career — given his age —
could be short-lived.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   43
ISAIAH DAVIS                                                                           70.0
                                                                                    ZAP Score


RB               South Dakota State Jackrabbits (New York Jets)     Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                         218

Statistical Comps: James Robinson • Tyler Allgeier • Chris Polk

Update: It’s almost like the Jets were using the ZAP Model to draft this year.

After taking Braelon Allen on Day 3, New York followed it up and, for whatever
reason, took Isaiah Davis in Round 5. Davis could potentially beat out Allen for
the RB2 spot on the team, but there’s no chance either guy is jumping over Breece
Hall.

Davis is an underrated prospect. He played four seasons at South Dakota State,
with one of those campaigns being a COVID-stricken one. He finished his collegiate
career with a best-season total yards per team play rate of 2.01, and he snagged a
reception share of 10.1%. He’s one of four running backs in this year’s class to
have hit a 2.0 total yards per team play and a 10% reception share, but he’s by
far the youngest among those four.

Sure, Davis played at South Dakota State, so it’s a little easier for him to post
good numbers. But do keep in mind that he split a backfield with NFLer Pierre
Strong in two of those four seasons. And Davis, who was the underclassman, was
able to dig into Strong’s workload.

Things didn’t really pop for Davis until Strong was gone. In 2022, Davis rushed
for 1,451 yards and 15 scores. He followed that up with a 1,578-yard campaign last
year.

Davis broke tackles at an above-average clip compared to the rest of the class,
and his ability to generate 10-plus yard runs was third-best. Among all running
backs in college football, Davis had the third-best offensive grade last season
according to Pro Football Focus.

The comps were strong for Davis if he fell to a destination where he could see
Year 1 work. Without an injury to Breece Hall, that’s not happening. Even with an
injury, we may not see things come to fruition.

It’s painful, but this is how it goes sometimes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           44
FRANK GORE JR.                                                                         49.8
                                                                                    ZAP Score


RB               Southern Mississippi Golden Eagles (Undrafted)     Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’8” Weight:                         201

Statistical Comps: Tyler Badie • Michael Carter • Trayveon Williams

We watched Frank Gore destroy defenses for years, and now it’s his son’s turn.

Man, I feel old.

Gore doesn’t have the same frame as his dad, but he still has pretty good tackle-
breaking ability. He forced missed tackles in his best season at a 36.6% rate, per
PFF, which was a top-10 number in the class.

There’s a chance we see Gore deployed as a pass-catcher in the NFL, which would be
good news for his fantasy value. His top-season in reception share was a healthy
14.6%, and he hit a solid 1.30 yards per route run last season. According to Pro
Football Focus, his pass blocking skills appear to be favorable when compared to
the rest of this class, too.

Gore is a little undersized, though, which is why we’re seeing the statistical
comparables we’re seeing. For him to really hit as a fantasy asset, he’ll need to
find an open-minded coaching staff that’s willing to give him a healthy workload,
similar to what we saw with Kyren Williams in 2023. It’s possible, but we’re
likely looking at a high-end outcome of an RB2 at best in PPR formats. There’s
nothing wrong with that as a later-round rookie pick, of course.

The ZAP Model likes Gore compared to where most have him thanks to the potential
pass-catching production.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           45
DAIJUN EDWARDS                                                              22.2
                                                                         ZAP Score


RB               Georgia Bulldogs (Undrafted)            Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:              207

Statistical Comps: Cierre Wood • Kelvin Taylor • Andre Ellington

On paper, Daijun Edwards’ profile isn’t very good. He never reached an 8%
reception share, giving him the third-lowest mark in the class. He’s also a little
undersized and failed to break out until late into his collegiate career.

From 2011 to 2021, we had 67 running backs get drafted after Pick 100 who weighed
in under 210 pounds. Just 13 of those 67 had sub-8% receptions shares. And just 1
of those 13 smaller, low-reception-share backs had a max season across their first
three in the league where they scored more than 2.7 PPR points per game. That lone
back was Andre Ellington, one of Edwards’ top statistical comps.

Edwards, though, is a Georgia back. They’ve been a tougher group to prospect
analytically through the years because of how the team tends to divvy up the
backfield. And, in Edwards’ case, he played with some strong talent. He got to
Georgia in 2020 and played behind Zamir White, Kenny McIntosh, and James Cook.
They’re all pros. It was the same deal in 2021, and then he had to deal with
McIntosh in 2022. All the while, there was fellow 2024 draft classmate Kendall
Milton stealing some work.

So we can look at Edwards’ body of work with a grain of salt. His circumstance
doesn’t totally dismiss everything, but if he gets higher-than-anticipated draft
capital, or if he goes to a team without much competition, he may be OK. And he’s
on the younger side compared to the rest of the class, which is a plus.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   46
JASE MCCLELLAN                                                                     58.2
                                                                                ZAP Score


RB               Alabama Crimson Tide (Atlanta Falcons)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:                     221

Statistical Comps: DeeJay Dallas • Jonathan Williams • Corey Clement

Yes, we’ve seen plenty of W’s at running back out of Alabama in recent history.
Jahmyr Gibbs is a monster. Najee Harris has been serviceable. Brian Robinson had a
great 2023 season. Josh Jacobs. Damien Harris. Each of the last five running backs
to go to the NFL Combine from Bama have been good to elite.

Is Jase McClellan really going to make it six in a row?

Well, he’s got the right size for the next level. Or, at least, size that
typically comes with a big workload. He’s still not 22 years old, either, so age
is working in his favor, too.

Beyond that? Meh.

McClellan’s best-season total yards per team play rate was just 1.25. That’s
better than recent Alabama backs Damien Harris and Josh Jacobs, but Harris and
Jacobs were also splitting a backfield together, and they both had pretty decent
draft capital. Jacobs was a first-rounder, while Harris was a Day 2 guy. That’s
not looking like it’ll be the case for McClellan.

McClellan also graded out as a really poor pass blocker, and his best campaign in
receiving yards per route run was lowest among recent Alabama backs to come out.

To put this all another way, it doesn’t look like McClellan is going to keep
things going for Alabama backs. At best, he seems like an early-down NFL back like
Damien Harris. And he’s not as good of a prospect as Harris was.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       47
KENDALL MILTON                                                                  12.9
                                                                         ZAP Score


RB               Georgia Bulldogs (Undrafted)            Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’2” Weight:              220

Statistical Comps: Alfred Blue • Matthew Tucker • Bryce Brown

Kendall Milton was never a workhorse back at Georgia. To reiterate some of the
things that were said about his teammate, Daijuan Edwards, yes, Georgia does
usually split up their backfields. And, yes, Milton played alongside some pretty
legit competition in college.

But at least Edwards had some semblance of a production profile.

Milton’s the bigger of the two backs who shared the Georgia backfield this past
year, coming in at 220 pounds. Even with that size, though, Milton forced missed
tackles at a below-average rate compared to others in the class. He was out-
attempted by Edwards in 2023, too.

The receiving portion looks even worse. Milton caught 12 balls across his four
seasons at Georgia, giving him a top-season reception share of just 1.6%. That’s
the lowest mark in the class.

You can come up with reasons as to why a player like Milton doesn’t have a better
production profile, but he’s not the first running back to have ever played with
strong competition in college. His sub-2% reception share is a massive red flag.
Just 17 running backs in the ZAP Model’s history have had a number that low, and
none of them gave fantasy managers a double-digit PPR point per game season during
one of their first three years in the league. The only one over three PPR points
per game was Andre Williams.

Anything is always possible, but probabilistically, Milton is not someone you
should be targeting.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                  48
KIMANI VIDAL                                                                    59.8
                                                                             ZAP Score


RB               Troy Trojans (Los Angeles Chargers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                       Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’8” Weight:                 213

Statistical Comps: Michael Warren • Mike Davis • Ben LeMay

Update: Just two running backs in the ZAP Model database measured under 5’9’’ at
the NFL Combine while hitting an above-average Breakout Score and a 105 Speed
Score. One of them is D’Andre Swift. The other is Troy’s Kimani Vidal.

Vidal had the eighth-highest offensive grade among running backs across college
football last year according to PFF, and he has above-average marks versus this
year’s class in Breakout Score, forced missed tackles per attempt, and receiving
yards per route run.

Of course, Vidal did all of this at Troy, so NFL teams didn’t credit him for those
marks the same way they would someone who went to Georgia. That’s the reason he
went in Round 6 and not, say, Round 3.

But Vidal was selected on Day 3, and the landing spot couldn’t have been better.
The Chargers are going to run the football with Greg Roman as offensive
coordinator, and they entered the draft with JK Dobbins and Gus Edwards as their
top-two backs. Dobbins is coming off an Achilles tear — an injury that’s extremely
tough to come back from at running back — while Edwards is a 29-year-old bruiser.
LA desperately needed some speed to the offense, and they got that with Vidal.

Vidal is a powerful runner for his size whose long-speed concerns were squashed a
bit with a 4.46 40-yard dash at the combine. He can very easily carve out a role
in the Chargers offense immediately, and it shouldn’t surprise anyone if he’s
their best back by the end of the season.

At the moment, there’s no telling where he’ll go in rookie drafts. Strictly look
at him as a player, and strictly looking at this fit, Vidal looks like a really
good target.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                    49
RASHEEN ALI                                                                             62.5
                                                                                     ZAP Score


RB               Marshall Thundering Herd (Baltimore Ravens)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                               Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                          206

Statistical Comps: Joshua Kelley • Jeff Wilson • Joseph Randle

Update: We didn’t see much production from Rasheen Ali when he was a Freshman at
Marshall, but that changed dramatically as a Sophomore in 2021. He rushed for over
1,400 yards during his second year, catching 45 passes in the process. His 13.9%
reception share that season ended up being a career high, and it also ended up
being sixth-best in this year’s class. Meanwhile, his 68.9 Breakout Score was
eighth-best.

Outside of the model, Ali’s forced missed tackles per attempt rate in his top
season ranks well below the 2024 class average. His explosive run rate was south
of the average as well, and he didn’t run a 40 at the NFL Combine, so the big-play
ability could be an issue. Overall, though, the ZAP Model sees him as a really
solid prospect who almost had a “low risk” Draft Capital Delta.

Baltimore isn’t the best team for Year 1 rookie running back production, but you
could do worse for a Day 3 landing spot. Derrick Henry is Baltimore’s starter now,
and he’s a 30-years-old back who doesn’t catch a ton of passes. He also may only
be on the team for a year. Keaton Mitchell is coming off a serious knee injury,
and he’s not a high-volume back. And are we really afraid of Justice Hill at this
point?

Ali could serve as Baltimore’s RB2 at the start of the 2024 season given
Mitchell’s recovery. If Henry’s not catching a ton of balls, then Ali could
immediately get some run doing that, too. At worst in this hypothetical scenario,
Ali’s a decent handcuff, unless you’re still a Justice Hill believer.

When you combine that kind of role with a good ZAP Model situation, you get
someone to target deep in your rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                            50
MICHAEL WILEY                                                                  33.1
                                                                            ZAP Score


RB               Arizona Wildcats (Undrafted)            Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                      Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:              210

Statistical Comps: Wendell Smallwood • Rakeem Boyd • James Williams

Michael Wiley has the pass-catching profile we look for in a fantasy back. His top
season in reception share was nearly 14% (top-10 in the class), and he’s one of
two running backs in this year’s draft group to have hit a best-season yards per
route run greater than 2.0.

Unfortunately, Wiley’s Breakout Score was lacking after never having a ton of
success on the ground at Arizona. He saw more than 100 carries in just one of five
seasons, maxing out his single-season rushing yards at 771. His receiving numbers
were strong nearly every single year, but the ground-game ones needed some work.

There are worse darts to throw at the end of your rookie draft, but, at 23-and-a-
half years old, Wiley’s probably not going to be gaining a ton of value in
dynasty.

As a depth piece with interesting PPR potential? Sure, why not?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   51
EMANI BAILEY                                                                           3.4
                                                                                  ZAP Score


RB               Texas Christian Horned Frogs (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                            Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’7” Weight:                      202

Statistical Comps: Darwin Thompson • Dee Hart • Devonta Freeman

At face value, Emani Bailey looks like a very obvious player to avoid. He’s
undersized. His top year in reception share is well below 10%. He didn’t have a
special Breakout Score. His Speed Score was just below 90.

None of the ZAP Model inputs look especially good for Bailey.

Bailey’s comparables, though, make you wonder.

One of them is Devonta Freeman. Like Bailey, Freeman was an undersized runner with
mediocre production who ran a pretty slow 40 before he got to the league. And, in
the league, he gave us some very good fantasy production.

Jaylen Warren’s another one. Warren just missed the comps list, but he, too, was
an undersized incoming rookie who’s doing way more in the NFL than many expected.

Could we be looking at that kind of thing happening for Bailey?

It’s wise to not bet on outliers. Both Freeman and Warren had better athleticism
marks than Bailey, and Freeman in particular saw better draft capital than Bailey
is likely to see. Both guys had better receiving marks in college, too.

Bailey had a strong Senior season, but it’s hard to envision an NFL team giving a
player his size a reasonable workload. Maybe he’ll break the mold like Freeman and
Warren did, but we shouldn’t bank on that happening.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                         52
MIYAN WILLIAMS                                                               15.8
                                                                         ZAP Score


RB               Ohio State Buckeyes (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’9” Weight:              229

Statistical Comps: CJ Anderson • Michael Dyer • Allen Bradford

Miyan Williams backed up TreVeyon Henderson at Ohio State, leading to a poorer
production profile. He’s one of five backs in this year’s class to have failed to
register a Breakout Score. Among the players in that group, he was second-worst in
reception share.

Receiving probably won’t be at the forefront for Williams at the next level, but
he may become a reasonable early-down rusher. He’s got a ridiculously thick frame,
standing at just 5’9’’ and weighing in at 229 pounds at the combine. His 33.8 BMI
is the fourth-highest the ZAP Model database has ever seen, trailing only CJ
Anderson, Eddie Lacy, and Zac Stacy.

That translated when Williams actually got the rock at Ohio State. He ranked well
above the class average in both forced missed tackles per attempt and yards after
contact per attempt.

Perhaps Williams would’ve found more success — at least in the model — had he
played elsewhere throughout college. We have to recognize that he competed in a
backfield with a very good running back. Even still, he’s probably not going to be
much of a pass-catcher in the NFL, which will cap his fantasy upside tremendously.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   53
JADEN SHIRDEN                                                                  41.4
                                                                            ZAP Score


RB               Monmouth Hawks (Undrafted)              Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’8” Weight:              187

Statistical Comps: Javian Hawkins • Keaton Mitchell • Jaret Patterson

The ZAP Model database says that there’ve been 22 running backs who weighed in
under 190 pounds at the NFL Combine since 2011. Of those 22, only Tarik Cohen,
De’Von Achane, and Keaton Mitchell have given fantasy managers any sort of
material output.

Those aren’t great odds, but get this: Cohen, Achane, and Mitchell had Breakout
Scores that ranked in the top-six within that group of 22 backs.

Jaden Shirden’s 87.5 Breakout Score puts him right there with those guys.

Counting on a sub-190-pound running back in fantasy is usually pretty foolish, but
there are some progressive teams out there who are willing to give smaller backs
an OK-enough workload. We saw that last year with Achane and Mitchell.

To be clear, Shirden doesn’t look like he’ll be as good of a prospect as even
Mitchell once the draft concludes. They have a nearly identical Breakout Score and
reception share in the model, and Mitchell was slightly better in Speed Score. But
some of the deeper numbers show that Shirden wasn’t great at shaking off
defenders, and his top-season yards per route run was one of the worst in the
class.

It’s just that, with these later-round dart throws, we’ve got to find something to
get excited about. Sometimes there’s nothing there, but, with Shirden, we at least
have examples of this archetype getting some action. If he can find an open-minded
offense during or after the draft, then he could be someone you want to have on
your dynasty roster’s bench.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                  54
GEORGE HOLANI                                                                39.6
                                                                           ZAP Score


RB               Boise State Broncos (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                     Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:              208

Statistical Comps: Rodney Smith • Johnathan Franklin • Chase Brown

For a player who may go undrafted, George Holani has a pretty strong production
profile. His 56.4 Breakout Score is above average within the class, and his 13.8%
reception share is eighth-best. He also had above-average marks in total yards per
team play, missed tackles forced per attempt, and yards per route run.

There just may not be anything special about Holani, which is the problem. He’s
certainly not an explosive back, having generated a 10-plus yard run on just 13.5%
of his totes during his best season within the metric. That’s a bottom-four number
in the class. His size is pretty average, and he’s going to be almost 24-and-a-
half years old by the time the draft gets here.

Had he run a faster 40, maybe we could call him this year’s Chase Brown. While
Brown’s a comp, Holani doesn’t have the same big-play ability.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 55
KEILAN ROBINSON                                                                    54.4
                                                                                ZAP Score


RB               Texas Longhorns (Jacksonville Jaguars)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’8” Weight:                     191

Statistical Comps: TJ Logan • Raymond Calais • Henry Josey

Update: The best part about Keilan Robinson’s ZAP Model profile is that he played
with Bijan Robinson, Roschon Johnson, and Jonathon Brooks. That’s his excuse for
having a Breakout Score of zero.

From a running back perspective, Keilan Robinson isn’t likely to be asked to do
much in the NFL. At 5’8’’, 191 pounds, he’s a change-of-pace guy who could help a
team out — the Jaguars — dramatically on special teams.

Robinson’s receiving numbers aren’t too shabby, though, especially when you
consider his competition at Texas. He secured an 8.1% reception share in 2022 with
Bijan Robinson and Roschon Johnson on the roster, and his yards per route run (in
limited action) was an impressive 3.22.

Maybe the Jags will find creative ways to get Robinson the ball and use him as a
gadget player offensively. He’ll likely play a special teams role for them at the
very least.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       56
ISAAC GUERENDO                                                                         66.4
                                                                                    ZAP Score


RB               Louisville Cardinals (San Francisco 49ers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’0” Weight:                        221

Statistical Comps: Isiah Pacheco • Da’Rel Scott • Knile Davis

Update: Isaac Guerendo weighed in at 221 pounds at the combine, making him the
fourth-heaviest back in this year’s class. He then went out and ran a 4.33 40,
giving him the best Speed Score — by far — in the group. It was actually the
third-best Speed Score the ZAP Model database has seen from a back.

How much does that really matter? Well, Guerendo’s production profile was pretty
mediocre. He failed to register a Breakout Score after playing four years at
Wisconsin and one at Louisville. He did catch 39 passes over his last two seasons,
but he maxed out with a best-season reception share that was just south of 10%.
Not great.

We’d ideally want to see a more well-rounded profile from a back, even when that
back had a massively high Speed Score. Put it this way: Six backs in the ZAP Model
database have hit a Speed Score of 115 or above while getting drafted after Pick
100. Three of them registered Breakout Scores, with those three being Latavius
Murray, Da’Rel Scott, and Isiah Pacheco. Two of those three hit, at least compared
to where they were drafted. The other three backs were Keith Marshall, Kalen
Ballage, and Kene Nwangwu. They were farts.

That should make us a little nervous about Guerendo. He does compare very, very
favorably to Isiah Pacheco. They’re similarly sized. They had supremely high Speed
Scores. They had nearly identical best-season reception shares. Their top campaign
in total yards per team play was just 0.1 yards from one another.

But Pacheco’s was high enough to register that Breakout Score, while Guerendo’s
wasn’t. And Guerendo is also almost 24 years old. Those are the things we can’t
push aside when evaluating just because he absolutely slayed the 40.

Guerendo landed in San Francisco, where, without Christian McCaffrey, it would be
an awesome fit. The Shanahan scheme favors these types of speedy backs, so, if
given an opportunity, Guerendo could be an intriguing fantasy asset.

That chance won’t come without a McCaffrey injury, though. Guerendo’s merely a
handcuff, albeit a very fun one.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           57
TYRONE TRACY                                                                       51.7
                                                                               ZAP Score


RB               Purdue Boilermakers (New York Giants)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                         Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                    209

Statistical Comps: Chris Evans • SaRodorick Thompson • Tony Pollard

Update: When the pre-draft version of this guide was released in early March,
there was very little chatter around Purdue’s Tyrone Tracy. He started picking up
some social media steam over the last month or so, and it all culminated with him
getting selected in the fifth round by the New York Giants.

There’s not much happening on that Giants running back depth chart. They signed
Devin Singletary this offseason, and while Singletary’s had success under Brian
Daboll in the past, that’s not a lot to overcome if you’re Tyrone Tracy.

Tracy’s not your ordinary running back prospect. He played college ball for six
years, starting all the way back in 2018 with Iowa. Tracy was a wide receiver
there for four seasons, and then he transferred to Purdue where he played more
running back. Last season was the only one where he carried the ball more than 17
times.

The ZAP Model compared Tracy to Tony Pollard, and that’s what we should be excited
about. The similarities are definitely there. Both players were under a 1.00 best-
season total yards per team play while hitting a nearly identical top-season
reception share. Pollard’s Speed Score was 100.6, while Tracy’s was 103.8. They’ve
got nearly identical size as well.

The main difference is that Tracy is almost 24-and-a-half years old, when Pollard
was 22 when he heard his name called in 2019. And we can’t overstate the age
factor, with Andre Ellington being the only 24-plus-year-old back (when drafted)
in the ZAP Model database to give us any sort of fantasy production since 2011.

There’s still intrigue here. Tracy has pass-catching chops, and because the Giants
lack rushing weapons, he could carve out a role on the ground, too. Don’t go too
far in targeting him — there are some truthers who will push his cost up — but
he’s a good player to have rostered.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                      58
Wide Receiver


MARVIN HARRISON JR.                                                                 99.3
                                                                                 ZAP Score


WR               Ohio State Buckeyes (Arizona Cardinals)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                           Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’3” Weight:                      209

Statistical Comps: AJ Green • CeeDee Lamb • Julio Jones

Update: To no one’s surprise, the Arizona Cardinals took Marvin Harrison Jr. with
the fourth overall pick in the draft. And his pre- to post-draft ZAP score is
unchanged.

Harrison brings an element to the Arizona offense that they simply don’t have.
Trey McBride can operate the middle of the field and gobble up some easy looks,
while Harrison will be winning on the outside, as he did at Ohio State.

And, trust me: He’ll win.

Prior to this draft and since 2011, we had only seen 14 wideouts get selected in
the top-10. Of those 14, just 2 were early-declare receivers with Breakout Scores
of 90 or greater while having multiple seasons with at least a 3.0 yards per team
pass attempt. Those two were AJ Green and Amari Cooper.

Marvin Harrison makes three.

Harrison pretty much checks every box. He produced as a Sophomore, where he broke
out in a big way. He did that at a school with NFL-caliber competition. And he
posted numbers with multiple quarterbacks under center.

You could argue that Harrison’s got some issues generating yards after the catch,
with his best-season in YAC per reception sitting as the third-worst in this
year’s class. That’s just not enough to call him a non-elite wide receiver. He’s a
cornerstone dynasty piece, and you could argue for him at the top spot in all
rookie draft formats. Even superflex ones.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                        59
MALIK NABERS                                                                         99.5
                                                                                  ZAP Score


WR               Louisiana State Tigers (New York Giants)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                            Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’0” Weight:                      201

Statistical Comps: Odell Beckham • DJ Moore • Ja’Marr Chase

Update: The ZAP Model, as you pre-draft readers know, loves Malik Nabers. Not only
is he slightly — slightly — ahead of Marvin Harrison Jr. in ZAP score, but he was
tagged with a low-risk Draft Capital Delta. That means, despite his sixth overall
draft capital, the model still sees him as an underrated player.

That’s bonkers.

The reason for that is about eight-fold. Naber’s 2023 saw him with a 3.82
receiving yards per team pass attempt, the highest max-season number from any
Power Five wideout in this year’s class. His 97.8 Breakout Score is the best among
combine invites this year. That score is so high because Nabers still isn’t 21
years old. He’s about a year younger than Marvin Harrison Jr.

Nabers’ non-ZAP Model metrics are great, too. His top collegiate yards per route
run season is second-best in the class. His PFF grade in 2023 was number one in
the nation. He ranked top-10 in the class in best-season yards after the catch per
reception. And he did all of that while playing alongside Brian Thomas, who went
23rd overall in the draft.

The ZAP Model prefers Nabers to Harrison, yes, but there are reasons to go with
Harrison over Nabers in your rookie drafts. Landing spot is one. The Cardinals are
a more advantageous team for immediate fantasy success than the Giants are. The
quarterback situation is more stable. Gamers may overstate the Giants destination
for Nabers, though, so don’t take that too far.

The main reason to prefer Harrison to Nabers is simply safety. We’ve seen Harrison
Jr. produce in multiple situations with more than one quarterback. As epic as
Nabers looks, he wasn’t able to do what Harrison did across multiple seasons.

Nevertheless, Nabers, like Harrison, is a foundational piece to your dynasty
rosters. And because there’s a chance fantasy managers inevitably overstate what
looks like a poor landing spot, you may be able to get him at a better value than
Harrison.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                         60
ROME ODUNZE                                                                    96.0
                                                                            ZAP Score


WR               Washington Huskies (Chicago Bears)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                      Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’3” Weight:                 212

Statistical Comps: DeAndre Hopkins • Michael Floyd • Drake London

Update: Rome Odunze’s ZAP score is a little lower than the other wideouts who were
picked in the top-10 because, quite simply, his age-adjusted collegiate production
profile wasn’t as good. His top year yards per team pass attempt rate came in at
2.86, and that hit during his Senior season.

Fortunately, even though he’s not an early-declare receiver, Odunze’s still got
age on his side. He’s just a tad older than Marvin Harrison Jr., and that allowed
his Breakout Score to sit at a respectable 86.2.

Early-declare status matters, but not nearly as much as some in the analytics
world believe. We’ve seen a lot of non-early-declare busts out of the first round
since 2011, yes, but many of those busts had poor Breakout Scores.

For some context, from 2011 to 2021 (we’ll limit things to that timeframe to give
players three years of NFL experience), we watched 12 non-early-declares get
drafted in Round 1. Five of those 12 players had Breakout Scores below 60. Four of
those five failed to reach 10 or more PPR points per game in one of their first
three seasons, while just one of the players above the 60 mark was unable to get
to that average.

In the end, non-early-declare first-round picks with strong Breakout Scores have
performed far better than early-declare first-round picks with poor Breakout
Scores through the years. That’s good news for someone like Odunze.

Odunze also has a nice Teammate Score. Washington teammate Ja’Lynn Polk went 37
overall, while Jalen McMillan fell to 92. That helps his ZAP score out, too.

Things aren’t poor for Odunze analytically. He’s just not as well off as Harrison
Jr. and Nabers. He may also have a little more difficult of a time gobbling up a
huge target share in Year 1 while competing alongside DJ Moore, Keenan Allen, and
Cole Kmet. Long-term, playing for the Bears should be excellent. Short-term, we
may not see as high of a ceiling as we’d want to see out of a top-10 pick.

You should still feel great about getting Odunze in your rookie drafts, though. In
most other classes, he’d be the clear-cut WR1. This one is just different.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   61
BRIAN THOMAS                                                                              94.5
                                                                                       ZAP Score


WR               Louisiana State Tigers (Jacksonville Jaguars)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                 Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’3” Weight:                           209

Statistical Comps: Quentin Johnston • Torrey Smith • Terrace Marshall

Update: The Jacksonville Jaguars desperately needed some wide receiver help, so
they went out and selected Brian Thomas with the 23rd overall pick in the draft.

The ZAP Model loves it.

Thomas’ Draft Capital Delta profile pegs him as a “low risk” bet, but there’s
definitely more iffiness to his profile than the model is seeing. Thomas was below
a 1.0 yards per team pass attempt rate across his first two seasons of college
ball before breaking out as a Junior. That breakout was pretty massive — he hit a
2.86 yards per team pass attempt while playing with sixth-overall pick Malik
Nabers — but he really only has one season of production under his belt, hence the
volatility.

There also aren’t many good comparables for Thomas. You’ll see Quentin Johnston as
his top comp, but the match isn’t actually all that strong. We haven’t seen many
players like Thomas come out over the last 15 years or so, making him, again, a
higher-variance selection for rookie draft purposes.

Enough with the bad, though. Thomas is a great prospect. He still isn’t 22 years
old, and because his 2023 season was so good, his Breakout Score is a more-than-
respectable 86.8. He can immediately play a field-stretching, Martavis Bryant-like
role for the Jags by using his insane size and athleticism, and there’s a real
chance for him to develop that further and become a true X receiver. As Matt
Harmon of Reception Perception put it, “…he is the much more actualized version of
prospects within this archetype that have come out recently in Quentin Johnston
and Christian Watson.”

A 94.7 score in the ZAP Model tells us that Thomas has a pretty good shot to be a
productive fantasy asset. The fact that Jacksonville has such an opening at the
position means that he could be fairly productive right away, too. There weren’t
many better spots for a wide receiver to go to for fantasy purposes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                              62
KEON COLEMAN                                                                        86.4
                                                                                 ZAP Score


WR               Florida State Seminoles (Buffalo Bills)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                           Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’3” Weight:                     213

Statistical Comps: Breshad Perriman • Kevin White • Courtland Sutton

Update: Buffalo was probably the best landing spot for a wide receiver in this
year’s draft, and Keon Coleman was the Bills’ selection at the top of the second
round. That, naturally, will raise his rookie draft cost.

The ZAP Model doesn’t see Coleman as an unbelievable prospect. He couldn’t get to
a max-season yards per team pass attempt of 2.0 in college, something 74.4% of the
class accomplished. That led to a Breakout Score that was barely above average at
55.5. We’ve had some hits in the top portion of the second round from players with
a mediocre Breakout Score, but we’d ideally want that number to be higher.

Looking at this more optimistically, Coleman played at Michigan State before his
final collegiate season at Florida State, and, there, he was able to perform
better — statistically — than teammate Jayden Reed. It’s good to have a data point
showing that he can compete with a legit NFLer. He’s also an early-declare who’s
only 21 year old — Coleman’s the second-youngest wideout who was invited to the
combine this year, with Malik Nabers being the only one younger.

Let’s go back to that landing spot, though. Per Matt Harmon’s Reception
Perception, Coleman struggled a bit against press and man defenses. He was strong
against zone. He’s got a prototypical X receiver build, but he may, according to
Harmon, be better off working as a big slot to start his NFL career.

That may be an issue in Buffalo. The Bills signed Curtis Samuel this offseason,
who largely played the slot in Washington. He, however, can probably move to the
outside. But Khalil Shakir is there as well, and he’s played the majority of his
NFL snaps from the slot. They also have capable pass-catching tight ends taking up
space and targets in that area of the field.

Keon Coleman is likely going to play the X role for Buffalo, and that presents
more risk when you select him in your rookie drafts.

There were worse wide receiver picks to make — Courtland Sutton is one of
Coleman’s comps, after all — but Coleman was close to having a high-risk Draft
Capital Delta. He’s not a guaranteed bust, it’s just important to be realistic and
not let the landing spot overshadow the talent profile. Because the talent profile
is far from flawless, and the situation he’s now in may be a little more difficult
than it seems at face value.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                        63
TROY FRANKLIN                                                                  77.7
                                                                            ZAP Score


WR               Oregon Ducks (Denver Broncos)           Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                      Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’3” Weight:              176

Statistical Comps: Jameson Williams • Paul Richardson • Jalin Hyatt

Update: Troy Franklin’s projected draft capital in the pre-draft version of this
guide was in the early second round. He ended up getting selected in the early
fourth round.

The reason for the slip is probably related to his size. Franklin’s under 180
pounds, and according to Matt Harmon’s Reception Perception, he struggled against
press coverage. That’s not going to get any easier in the NFL, and it could lead
him to going down the path as some of his top comparables in the ZAP Model. Jalin
Hyatt makes a ton of sense as a comp.

Franklin’s still an attractive Day 3 receiver. He’s one of three wideouts from
this class to have an 85 Breakout Score, an 85 Fantasy Points Score, and a max-
season yards per route run rate above 3.0. The other two are Marvin Harrison Jr.
and Malik Nabers.

His age-adjusted production is strong.

The fit in Denver is a nice one. The Broncos drafted Marvin Mims last year, and he
struggled at times as a rookie. Courtland Sutton is older and could be on his way
out soon. More importantly, the Broncos selected Bo Nix in Round 1, and Nix was
Franklin’s quarterback at Oregon. The two lit it up in 2023, leading to Franklin’s
prorated 2.90 yards per team pass attempt rate, the 11th-best mark in the class.

Now that Franklin’s rookie draft cost shouldn’t be as high as it was pre-draft,
he’s someone to eye.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   64
ADONAI MITCHELL                                                                  84.0
                                                                              ZAP Score


WR               Texas Longhorns (Indianapolis Colts)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’2” Weight:                   205

Statistical Comps: Alec Pierce • Van Jefferson • Chris Conley

Update: Just a couple of years ago, the Colts took an athletic wide receiver who
had poor collegiate production with the 53rd overall pick in the draft. Here in
2024, Indy selected an athletic wide receiver who had poor collegiate production
with the 52nd overall pick in the draft.

It appears they have a type.

Adonai Mitchell’s top comparable in the ZAP Model is Alec Pierce. That’s who
Indianapolis selected two drafts ago. And, as we know, Pierce hasn’t exactly
worked out.

The ZAP Model does like Mitchell more than Pierce. Their Breakout Scores are
comparable — Pierce’s is slightly worse — but Mitchell’s an early-declare who
played at Georgia and Texas, accumulating a strong Teammate Score. Pierce was at
Cincinnati.

There are definitely massive red flags here, though. Mitchell’s got a sub-50
Breakout Score, and only 18% of second-rounders since 2011 with Breakout Scores
below 50 have provided any sort of sustained fantasy relevancy. What’s worse — not
for the model, but just in general — is that Mitchell was horrific on a per-route-
run basis in college. Only two wide receivers in this year’s class had a best-
season yards per route run rate below 2.0. One of them is Mitchell. And Mitchell’s
is worst.

The Colts, at least, are getting someone who has a good shot to be an upgrade over
Pierce. That should get Mitchell onto the field quickly in two-wide receiver sets.

But we shouldn’t sell this as a good landing spot. Michael Pittman is there, and
he recently signed an extension. Josh Downs, an underrated slot receiver, is going
to be in Indy for three more seasons on his rookie deal. And the offense with
Anthony Richardson is bound to be fairly run-heavy. There’s plenty of data that
shows mobile quarterbacks are bad for their pass-catchers in fantasy.

The way AD Mitchell ends up being a fantasy football stud is if he’s undeniably
good. There are just too many analytical issues for me to think that’s a likely
outcome.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     65
LADD MCCONKEY                                                                        87.5
                                                                                 ZAP Score


WR               Georgia Bulldogs (Los Angeles Chargers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                           Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                      209

Statistical Comps: Sterling Shepard • Marvin Mims • TJ Graham

Update: When it comes to the production metrics that go into the ZAP Model, Ladd
McConkey’s not looking so hot. His top year in receiving yards per team pass
attempt is only 1.63, the third-lowest mark in the class. After getting selected
in the second round by the Chargers, McConkey joins three other Round 2 wideouts
since 2011 who had a best-season yards per team pass attempt rate under 1.70.
Those three guys? Aaron Dobson, Mecole Hardman, and Van Jefferson.

There’s a key difference between McConkey and those three pass-catchers, though,
and that’s in the yards per route run department. Dobson was drafted before yards
per route run data became accessible, but Hardman had a top-season yards per route
run rate of 2.75, per PFF, while Jefferson’s was 2.00. McConkey’s sits at 3.26.

Yards per team pass attempt correlates strongly to yards per route run when
analyzing best-season numbers. Every once in a while, we’ll see situations like
this where they just don’t match up. And it makes my brain hurt.

McConkey’s yards per route run rate in his top season is sixth-highest in this
draft class. Of the players who come in higher, each one had a receiving yards per
team pass attempt rate above 3.30. McConkey’s, as I said above, was 1.63!

How is this even possible, you ask? Well, turns out, McConkey just didn’t run
enough routes at Georgia. Whether that was due to game script or injury, he wasn’t
out there enough. He was great when he was on the field, but he ranked fifth in
routes run for the Bulldogs last year.

Yards per team pass attempt gets signal, and not being on the field isn’t ideal.
We can still subjectively boost McConkey up a tad, though, and think of his
Breakout Score as being better than 42.9.

McConkey wins in other areas of the model. His Teammate Score is top-notch, and he
was able to amass rushing yards at Georgia as well. The Chargers got him because
of that versatility — they really needed a player who can win everywhere in that
offense, even if it’s a more run-heavy one than we’d like.

McConkey’s in a good spot to see a high target share immediately on a team that
lacks receiving weapons. He’s a relatively safe option, even with the production
worries.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                        66
XAVIER WORTHY                                                                    95.6
                                                                              ZAP Score


WR               Texas Longhorns (Kansas City Chiefs)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                   165

Statistical Comps: Marquise Brown • Jordan Addison • Jahan Dotson

Update: Xavier Worthy is small, and that frame gave him some issues at Texas.
According to Matt Harmon’s Reception Perception, Worthy ranked below-average
against press coverage, coming in well behind last year’s small wide receiver
king, Tank Dell.

The ZAP Model doesn’t factor in size, probably because it’s captured in draft
capital. And Worthy got draft capital. He was selected 28th overall to Kansas
City, making him just the fourth sub-170-pound wideout to get picked in the
top-100 since 2011. The other four wide receivers? Devonta Smith, Marquise Brown,
Tank Dell, and Tutu Atwell. It’s a tiny sample, but that’s not a bad group.

What makes Worthy look so special in the model is his age-adjusted production. As
a Freshman, he posted a yards per team pass attempt rate of 2.88, leading to the
third-best Breakout Score in the class behind only Malik Nabers and Marvin
Harrison Jr. Yes, Worthy has blazing speed, and that’s something the Chiefs
undoubtedly fell in love with. But we generally don’t see these types of players
enter the league with such strong age-adjusted profiles.

The fact that Worthy’s yards per team pass attempt rate didn’t improve after his
Freshman year is a concern, and perhaps the model isn’t fully comprehending that
side of things. With that being said, our small-sample history of Freshman peakers
doesn’t look so bad. Only seven players in the ZAP Model had their top season in
prorated yards per team pass attempt as Freshman while getting top-150 capital. Of
those seven, you get hits like TY Hilton, Stefon Diggs, Christian Kirk, and Amon-
Ra St. Brown.

There are certainly some non-model red flags here, and we should be cognizant of
them. The landing spot in Kansas City, however, should be able to mitigate some of
that risk. The Chiefs are great at creating space for their wide receivers, and
Worthy will be placed in situations where he’s not having to beat press coverage
the same way he would in other schemes. That’s a plus from a fantasy perspective.

Will he become a super high-volume pass-catcher in the league? Probably not.
That’s why it’s easy to disagree with the model’s assessment of Worthy being a
“low risk” option. But can he still be a strong fantasy asset in this situation
via efficiency? 100 percent.

Don’t let his size fool you. Worthy can play.
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     67
XAVIER LEGETTE                                                                           86.2
                                                                                      ZAP Score


WR               South Carolina Gamecocks (Carolina Panthers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                           221

Statistical Comps: JJ Arcega-Whiteside • Jonathan Mingo • Hakeem Butler

Update: Xavier Legette has the strangest production profile you’ll find from a
wide receiver prospect. We got mostly nothing from him during his first four years
at South Carolina, with his single-season receiving yards total topping out at
167.

And then the 2023 season happened. Legette went from a yards per team pass attempt
of just 0.59 in 2022 to a rate of 3.05 last year. He’s one of just eight wideouts
in the class with a best-season number north of 3.0. Since that figure was so
strong, his Breakout Score came out to be a respectable 78.0.

Legette’s an older prospect, but that may not be that big of a deal when you
combine his age with his Breakout Score. Dating back to 2011, the ZAP Model
database has only seen two other 23-year-old wide receivers get drafted in the 20
to 40 range with Breakout Scores above 75. Those two pass-catchers were Calvin
Ridley and Deebo Samuel. Loosening those parameters to players chosen between Pick
1 and Pick 60, and you add Sterling Shepard and Jayden Reed to the mix. Those
receivers all scored better versus draft capital than Legette did — Legette’s the
only “high risk” profile of the group — but things could be looking worse.

In Charlotte, Legette will attempt to fill a perimeter role that was really
lacking last season. Jonathan Mingo — who’s hilariously one of Legette’s comps —
ended last year with a 0.78 yards per route run rate while running two-thirds of
his routes from the outside. Even for a rookie, that yards per route run rate was
horrendous. Mingo’s a more natural “big slot” type, and the Panthers new coaching
staff likely sees that. They needed a body — in this case, an uber-athletic body —
to allow Mingo some flexibility. In turn, Legette has a chance to find the field
right away opposite of newcomer Diontae Johnson.

Whether you target Legette or not really comes down to cost. It’s easy to imagine
him falling in rookie drafts that have data nerds as managers. You can swing at
the profile’s volatility in those environments. It just wouldn’t seem reasonable
to aggressively target Legette, because the model definitely sees him as a risky
gamble.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                             68
JA’LYNN POLK                                                                          86.5
                                                                                   ZAP Score


WR               Washington Huskies (New England Patriots)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                             Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                        203

Statistical Comps: DaeSean Hamilton • Dez Fitzpatrick • Parris Campbell

Update: Thank goodness for Teammate Score, because it’s making Ja’Lynn Polk’s ZAP
Model profile look much more relevant. As many of you know, he played alongside
Rome Odunze and Jalen McMillan in college, and that naturally impacted his overall
numbers.

But his overall numbers still weren’t fantastic.

Polk’s Breakout Score — again, we’re all on the same page here that teammate
context is important — is just 38.5. He’s now the seventh wide receiver in the ZAP
Model database to go in Round 2 with a sub-40 Breakout Score, and none of the
other six were able to reach double-digit PPR points per game in one of their
first three NFL seasons.

There’s a legit chance Polk can break that streak. He fell to New England, and the
Patriots have no real presence on the perimeter, which is where Polk spent most of
his time at Washington. He should be able to start with rookie Drake Maye
immediately, giving him a nice target share ceiling as a rookie. He could end up
being a nice value over on Underdog.

Not only that, but the reason Teammate Score exists is so that we don’t overstate
particular production metrics. Polk’s Breakout Score is bad, yes, but among those
second-round wide receivers with similar numbers, Polk’s Teammate Score is by far
the highest.

When looking at his overall ZAP score — you know, the thing that matters most with
all these calculations — you’ve got a player who more or less fits his draft cost.
Chances are, you won’t see anything Late-Round Fantasy Football-related that’ll be
overly high or overly low on Polk.

And, remember, this is a different New England Patriots regime. The fact that
they’ve been bad at picking wide receivers in the past doesn’t mean we should
worry about Polk being a bust.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                          69
DEVONTEZ WALKER                                                                         65.3
                                                                                     ZAP Score


WR               North Carolina Tar Heels (Baltimore Ravens)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                               Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’2” Weight:                         193

Statistical Comps: Jalen Tolbert • Dante Pettis • Devin Street

Update: Devontez Walker going to Baltimore in Round 4 is a great real football
fit, but it may not turn into a great fantasy football one.

Walker began playing college football at North Carolina Central in 2020, but he
actually didn’t get run because the season was cancelled due to COVID. He then
transferred to Kent State in 2021, where caught just 5 passes for 124 yards and a
score.

We didn’t get sincere production from Walker until 2022. He finished that season
with a yards per team pass attempt rate of 2.64, his highest of his collegiate
career, but that number gets brought down a bit in the ZAP Model because it was
snagged at Kent State. That’s not exactly a powerhouse football program.

Walker then moved back to North Carolina and played for the Tar Heels in 2023. He
was initially denied eligibility, but he was able to play eight games. His
prorated yards per team pass attempt finished off at 2.47. In the end, Walker
completed college with just a 54.9 Breakout Score and a 51.6 Fantasy Points Score.
He was completely ordinary within those metrics.

The Ravens are always looking for deep threats with Lamar Jackson under center,
and they got that with Walker. He had a ridiculous 22.3 average depth of target at
Kent State in 2022, and he followed that up with an 18.2 aDOT in 2023. He was 21st
among qualified wide receivers last year in percentage of targets that traveled 20
or more yards. He was sixth in college football in deep ball yards per game, too.

Will there be much more for him? Considering his ZAP score and comparables, we
shouldn’t bank on that. It doesn’t make him a bad draft selection for the Ravens,
but it makes him a later-round pick only in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                            70
ROMAN WILSON                                                                           75.7
                                                                                   ZAP Score


WR               Michigan Wolverines (Pittsburgh Steelers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                             Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                        185

Statistical Comps: Randall Cobb • Phillip Dorsett • John Metchie

Update: With Arthur Smith in town, the Steelers are going to lean more on the run.
The Falcons were bottom-five in the league in pass rate during two of his three
seasons there as head coach. As offensive coordinator in Tennessee during the two
years prior, the Titans were 29th and 30th in pass rate.

Pittsburgh beefing up their offensive line in the draft isn’t a surprise, but,
even with this run-heavy offense, they also had a huge void at wide receiver that
needed to be filled after they traded away Diontae Johnson this offseason. And
they started to fix that problem with Roman Wilson.

Wilson profiles as a slot guy. He only had one season above a 1.10 yards per team
pass attempt rate, and it came last year when he ran about 69% of his routes out
of the slot. His Breakout Score is below the median as a result.

Wilson’s ZAP score looks OK enough for the draft capital that he received because
he was a pretty versatile player at Michigan. He was able to compile some
production on the ground — that’s a plus for the model — and he’s got enough speed
to potentially beat guys deep as well.

It’s tough to imagine a world where Wilson is lighting it up in fantasy football.
He’s walking into a conservative offense, and he could be limited to the slot in
the NFL. But he’ll have a role right away, which isn’t something we can say about
all Day 2 wideouts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                          71
MALACHI CORLEY                                                                            71.8
                                                                                      ZAP Score


WR               Western Kentucky Hilltoppers (New York Jets)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:                           215

Statistical Comps: Amari Rodgers • Deebo Samuel • Kealoha Pilares

Update: Since 2011, the ZAP Model has seen 11 wide receivers get selected in the
top-100 of the NFL Draft after failing to register a Breakout Score. Among that
group, only Terry McLaurin was able to do anything of substance in fantasy
football during his first three years in the league.

Malachi Corley has a Breakout Score of zero.

Corley’s top season in yards per team pass attempt ended up being only 2.08, a
number that’s not all that impressive considering the competition he faced at
Western Kentucky. That’s why his Breakout Score didn’t show up.

A key reason for that poor production profile was deployment. Over 38% of Corley’s
targets last season came behind the line of scrimmage. Per PFF, 44.3% of his
targets were screens, one of the highest marks in college football last year.

This explains Corley’s sub-8.0-yard average depth of target rates throughout
college. When aDOTs are that low, it’s going to be a little more difficult to
capture a huge yards per team pass attempt number.

Corley did generate a ton of yards after the catch in that role as a Hilltopper,
and that’s why you’ve likely seen and read Deebo Samuel comps for him. Samuel is a
physical comparison for sure — the ZAP Model thought so, too — but Corley’s
profile matches Amari Rodgers much better. That’s because Samuel’s production
profile was far, far better.

There are worse landing spots than the Jets. They’ve got their stud WR1 in Garrett
Wilson, and New York signed Mike Williams to a one-year deal this off-season, too.
Corley, at a minimum, could play a little slot in Year 1 while getting gadgety
touches in the offense.

Could Corley end up doing more down the line? Sure. All evidence just points to
“we don’t know”, since we haven’t seen him in a standard wide receiver role. He’s
a work in progress, and because of that, combined with his ZAP score, he’s
probably not someone you should put a premium on in rookie drafts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                             72
RICKY PEARSALL                                                                   89.7
                                                                              ZAP Score


WR               Florida Gators (San Francisco 49ers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’1” Weight:                  190

Statistical Comps: Jayden Reed • Markus Wheaton • Denarius Moore

Update: When Ricky Pearsall’s write-up was published back in early March, he was
projected to maybe be a second-round pick. Maybe. Back then, it was easy to call
him a rookie draft target. Now, he’s going to rise up boards thanks to his
relatively surprising Round 1 draft capital.

That presents more of a problem.

History doesn’t favor Pearsall. Specifically, his Breakout Score of 57.7 is a
pretty big concern. Since 2011, there hasn’t been a single first-round wide
receiver hit who had a Breakout Score below 60. That list includes Cordarrelle
Patterson, Tavon Austin, Kelvin Benjamin, Kevin White, Phillip Dorsett, Josh
Doctson, Henry Ruggs, Jalen Reagor, and Kadarius Toney. Bring that number up to
70, and you add Nelson Agholor and John Ross to the mix.

Even if you look strictly at players drafted between Pick 20 and 40 since 2011 —
Pearsall’s range — the results aren’t great. The only two players in that group
who ended up being productive in fantasy were Michael Pittman and Christian
Watson. And the jury’s still out with Watson. That’s out of 11 wideouts, too.

Pearsall still isn’t tagged with a “high risk” Draft Capital Delta because he was
such a versatile receiver at Florida, which is helping his score. He ran for 175
yards over his final two seasons, with a 113-yard campaign in 2022. The Gators
lined him up everywhere, and some would consider him the best route runner in this
entire draft class.

The ZAP score is what matters most. Being around 90, Pearsall doesn’t have a
dramatically different tally than non-early-declare Zay Flowers had last year
(91.2). Pearsall just may have a tougher time finding action in Year 1 while
competing with Brandon Aiyuk, Deebo Samuel, George Kittle, and Christian
McCaffrey.

Aiyuk is a free agent next year, and there’s always a chance we see a trade, which
would open things up for Pearsall. But without a trade, you run the risk of
Pearsall not holding value from Year 1 to Year 2. The fit is awesome — Kyle
Shanahan will have no problem maximizing Pearsall’s skill-set — but the fantasy
side could end up being bumpy. Let’s hope Pearsall gets a shot, because he’s good.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     73
JOHNNY WILSON                                                                             46.2
                                                                                       ZAP Score


WR               Florida State Seminoles (Philadelphia Eagles)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                 Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’6” Weight:                           231

Statistical Comps: Dorial Green-Beckham • Collin Johnson • Mike Strachan

Update: Very-large-human-being Johnny Wilson ended up going later in the draft
than most expected. The Eagles snagged him in Round 6, and they got a player who
could, hypothetically, back up their studly perimeter wideouts in the offense.

Wilson’s production marks weren’t all that bad in college. After failing to post
much production at Arizona State, he transferred to Florida State in 2022. There,
he immediately put up a 2.27 yards per team pass attempt rate, giving us a
Breakout Score of 37.7.

Those third-year numbers took a slight hit in Year 4, unfortunately, and it’s
partially because of Keon Coleman joining the squad. On the plus side, though,
Wilson actually finished 2023 with a better receiving yards per team pass attempt
compared to Coleman. And Coleman was selected in the early second round.

Don’t expect Wilson to be a producer without injuries going down in the Eagles
offense. Unlike Ainias Smith, Wilson doesn’t really fit a role that’s open in the
offense. He’s more of a depth piece and red-zone threat for Jalen Hurts.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                              74
BRENDEN RICE                                                                             42.4
                                                                                      ZAP Score


WR               Southern California Trojans (Los Angeles Chargers)   Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’2” Weight:                         208

Statistical Comps: Michael Wilson • Aaron Dobson • Jaleel Scott

When it comes to the things the ZAP Model looks at, Brenden Rice doesn’t grade out
all that well. He never got anything going when he started his college career at
Colorado, and while his production increased at Southern Cal in 2022 and 2023, his
numbers still weren’t special. His best-season in yards per team pass attempt was
only 1.86, and his other relevant season was at 1.19.

That all led to a Breakout Score of zero. Since 2011, of the wide receivers
selected after the first round and through Pick 150 who had a Breakout Score of
zero, only three scored 10 or more PPR points per game in one of their first three
seasons in the league: Cecil Shorts, Hunter Renfrow, and Terry McLaurin.

Many will likely point to Rice’s big touchdown number in 2023 as reason to like
him, but his 32.4% touchdown share last year was barely above the average max-
season touchdown share in this year’s class. The raw number looks good — he scored
12 times — but USC was also top-five in the country in passing touchdowns. That
waters things down.

Rice, per the model, has a very strong match to Michael Wilson, who came out of
last year’s class. Wilson’s someone who’s fine, but he’s unlikely to have a
massive ceiling in the NFL. If Rice can find himself on a team that lacks
alternatives — as Wilson did last year — then, sure, he might be able to give you
WR3 or WR4 seasons over the next few years.

We just can’t bet on that right now. Even if it is someone with Jerry Rice’s
genes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                             75
JALEN MCMILLAN                                                                         74.6
                                                                                   ZAP Score


WR               Washington Huskies (Tampa Bay Buccaneers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                             Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                        197

Statistical Comps: Kenny Stills • Tandon Doss • Amon-Ra St. Brown

Update: The ZAP Model is into Jalen McMillan. Sure, his 74.6 score isn’t anything
to write home about, but, compared to draft capital, the model’s looking at him
favorably.

McMillan landed with Tampa Bay in the third round. He ran roughly 90% of his
routes from the slot in 2022 and 2023 — his only productive seasons at Washington
— so we should probably expect that kind of role with the Buccaneers. Trey Palmer
occupied that area of the field on 57% of his routes last season, which led the
trio of receivers (Mike Evans and Chris Godwin included) in Tampa Bay. Palmer,
however, finished the year with a pitiful 0.84 yards per route run — a number
that’s not strong regardless of competition — so maybe the Buccaneers simply see
McMillan as an upgrade.

Don’t sleep on McMillan, either. He was banged up in 2023, which really allowed
Ja’Lynn Polk, an early second-round pick, to break out. In 2022, though, McMillan
had over 400 more yards than Polk, and he led Washington — a team that had Rome
Odunze on it, too — in receiving touchdowns.

Things look messy in Tampa Bay right now because they have two very good veteran
wide receivers to go along with a second-year wideout who appeared to be good
enough in 2023. How, you might wonder, will McMillan find the field?

He may not. It may take a little time. But we should always bet on talent, and
McMillan seems to have it.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                          76
JERMAINE BURTON                                                                       76.9
                                                                                   ZAP Score


WR               Alabama Crimson Tide (Cincinnati Bengals)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                             Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’0” Weight:                        196

Statistical Comps: Malcolm Mitchell • Trey Palmer • Robert Woods

Update: There’ve been some off-the-field questions surrounding Jermaine Burton,
and that could be the reason he was drafted in Round 3 this year instead of Round
2. But he got decent draft capital when he landed with the Bengals at 80th
overall.

And he got Joe Burrow, too.

Burton’s been a relatively underrated player throughout the draft process. He
started off at Georgia, and, in 2021, he was second on the team in receiving
yards. As a Sophomore. On a team that had Brock Bowers, Ladd McConkey, Adonai
Mitchell, Darnell Washington, and, for four games, George Pickens.

Compared to the rest of the class, Burton’s numbers are really solid. His Breakout
Score is 10th-best among combine invites, and his Fantasy Points Score ranks 7th.
He’s being brought down just a little bit — or at least not enhanced — by a lack
of rushing production that others in the class have.

Cincinnati’s a solid place for him to be. Tee Higgins is franchise-tagged for
2024, but he’s a free agent in 2025. Tyler Boyd’s gone, leaving Ja’Marr Chase as
the only long-term reliable option for the Bengals offense.

Burton can, in Year 1, get vertical for Cincinnati. He can create some splash
plays for the offense. Per PFF data, he ranked in the 96th percentile last season
in percentage of targets that traveled 20 or more air yards. We know he can play
that role.

Just don’t think it’ll stop there. If everything comes together, Burton could be a
very, very reliable fantasy option on a Tee Higgins-less Cincinnati team.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                          77
JAMARI THRASH                                                                       49.3
                                                                                 ZAP Score


WR               Louisville Cardinals (Cleveland Browns)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                           Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’0” Weight:                     188

Statistical Comps: Vincent Brown • Dax Milne • Dillon Mitchell

Update: Jamari Thrash has the third-best max-season receiving yards per team pass
attempt rate in this year’s class. The reason he’s got a “high risk” Draft Capital
Delta is because it took him a while to get to that number. He was at Georgia
State for four years, and he needed all four seasons to just get over 500
receiving yards in a single campaign. That was the year where he dominated and had
a 3.77 yards per team pass attempt, over two yards higher than his number from the
previous season.

Thrash then transferred to Louisville for his final collegiate season in 2023. As
a Cardinal, his yards per team pass attempt was a pretty ordinary 2.45.

Despite his size, Thrash, per Pro Football Focus, played very little slot receiver
at both Georgia State and Louisville. That makes it tougher to forecast how he’ll
be used in the NFL. Chances are, he’ll still end up as a slot guy.

In Cleveland, he may have a hard time finding the field right away. Amari Cooper,
Jerry Jeudy, and Elijah Moore look pretty good on paper, even if Jeudy and Moore
haven’t lived up to expectation in the NFL. With only a disappointing perimeter
receiver in Cedric Tillman behind them on the depth chart, the Browns probably saw
Thrash as a good depth piece who doesn’t fit the same archetype.

You should view him that same way on your dynasty roster. He’s just a deep stash
at the moment.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                        78
JACOB COWING                                                                       65.5
                                                                                ZAP Score


WR               Arizona Wildcats (San Francisco 49ers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’8” Weight:                     168

Statistical Comps: Jaelon Darden • Tank Dell • Scott Miller

Update: Jacob Cowing is a Day 3 favorite of the ZAP Model. His Draft Capital Delta
is neutral, but his Breakout Score of 74.3 is 12th-best in the class after he
tallied some monster seasons at UTEP. He played three years there — two of them
had elite receiving yards per team pass attempt rates — before transferring to
Arizona. His production was still OK at Arizona, where he hit prorated yards per
team pass attempt rates of 1.82 and 2.25 during his two campaigns there.

Size is a concern for Cowing, but we’ve seen smaller wideouts thrive in today’s
NFL. Just last season, Tank Dell — a top comp for Cowing — looked the part in
Houston’s offense.

It should be noted that the majority of Cowing’s snaps came from the slot, likely
due to his smaller frame. And he ranked in the top-10 in targets behind the line
of scrimmage over the last two seasons — his two played with Arizona — which could
point to him not being able to win targets more naturally.

Fortunately, he went to San Francisco, a place where we should feel more confident
that he can be schemed open. The 49ers have a lot up in the air at wide receiver,
so we know that selecting Cowing in our rookie drafts could go south, but Shanahan
and company probably saw a good route runner with speed and got excited. San
Francisco is clearly trying to add that speed element in this draft after taking
Ricky Pearsall (4.41 40), Isaac Guerendo (4.33), and Cowing (4.38).

Since the offense has so many weapons, you’re unlikely going to have to spend up
to get Cowing in rookie drafts. Don’t be opposed to taking him, though. Situations
can change fast, and with Brandon Aiyuk on the last year of his deal and Deebo
Samuel the subject of trade rumors, things could open up in a hurry.

Cowing’s got an analytical profile that indicates he’s talented. You should be
spending lower-end draft picks on that.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       79
MALIK WASHINGTON                                                                 51.5
                                                                             ZAP Score


WR               Virginia Cavaliers (Miami Dolphins)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                       Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’9” Weight:                 191

Statistical Comps: Devin Duvernay • Michael Campanaro • D’Wayne Eskridge

Update: The best Day 3 wide receiver pairing might be Malik Washington going to
Miami. Yeah, yeah, I know — the Dolphins have two target hogs on the roster
already in Tyreek Hill and Jaylen Waddle. What they don’t have is a reliable slot
receiver, and that’s exactly what Washington is.

After a tough time producing at Northwestern for four years, Washington
transferred to Virginia for one final season of college ball. There, he caught 110
passes for 1,426 yards and 9 scores, skyrocketing his best-season yards per team
pass attempt rate to 3.60, a top-five number in the class.

Pro Football Focus graded Washington as the second-best Power Five wide receiver
in college football last year, behind only Malik Nabers. His yards per route run
in 2023 was comfortably in the top-10 within the class, and he has a Fantasy
Points Score of 83.6, one of the better scores in the group.

Washington’s production at Northwestern is really the issue here. He was a monster
in 2023 with some of the best numbers among these incoming rookies, but his four
years at Northwestern were troubling, which is why he doesn’t look better in the
ZAP Model.

Sometimes, though, players just go to the wrong school for production
maximization. And Northwestern didn’t exactly have the best passing distributors
while Washington was there. Mike McDaniel’s offense with two insane vertical
threats on the outside is totally different. Washington plays with a lot of
toughness, and he’ll be able to generate plenty of yards after the catch in this
system. He’s just got to win that slot job, which is certainly in his rookie-
season range of outcomes.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                    80
AINIAS SMITH                                                                        64.1
                                                                                ZAP Score


WR               Texas A&M Aggies (Philadelphia Eagles)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’9” Weight:                     190

Statistical Comps: Curtis Samuel • Marcus Green • Randall Cobb

Update: Ainias Smith’s game is easy to like. He played running back as a Sophomore
at Texas A&M (or was listed as one), where he ran the ball 40 times and caught 43
passes. He then was a more traditional wide receiver as a Junior, and, as a
Senior, he hurt his leg and missed the majority of the season. He went back for
another year in 2023, where he put together the best receiving season of his
career.

There’s so much versatility with Smith, so he’s just easy to fall in love with.
And that’s what the Eagles likely saw, too. Philly doesn’t have a locked-in slot
guy on the team, and Smith can be that dude. He was a low-average-depth-of-target
receiver who generated yards after the catch through explosiveness in college.
Letting AJ Brown and Devonta Smith do their thing vertically on the outside while
Ainias Smith creates on shorter throws is a chef’s kiss match.

Will that turn into fantasy football goodness? It may take a minute. With Dallas
Geodert at tight end and Saquon Barkley out of the backfield, a full-time slot guy
in Philadelphia still may max out at a 13% or 14% target share. That doesn’t mean
there won’t be some spiked weeks, though. And there’s definitely some contingent
injury upside.

Smith’s a fair late-round rookie pick, and he’s even someone you might want to
consider at the end of Underdog best-ball drafts this summer within your Eagles
stacks. He’s very close to having a “low risk” Draft Capital Delta.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       81
JAVON BAKER                                                                                67.6
                                                                                        ZAP Score


WR               Central Florida Knights (New England Patriots)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                  Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   6’1” Weight:                            202

Statistical Comps: Allen Hurns • Rishard Matthews • Michael Gallup

Update: That Patriots are getting weapons for Drake Maye. And unlike the last
regime, they selected a couple of solid prospects in the first four rounds of the
draft.

Ja’Lynn Polk was their early-second-round selection, and Javon Baker was their
fourth-round one. Baker started his collegiate journey at Alabama, where he caught
just nine passes in two seasons. He then transferred to Central Florida where he
immediately produced as a Junior, catching 56 balls for almost 800 yards. That
resulted in a yards per team pass attempt rate of 1.76.

Things really got going in 2023, Baker’s Senior season. He actually caught fewer
passes (52) compared to his Junior year, but his yardage total increased by 43%. A
17.1 average depth of target helped with that. Baker, in the end, hit an
impressive 3.11 yards per team pass attempt rate last year, helping him get to an
82.4 Breakout Score. That’s a top-10 number in the class.

It was a late breakout for Baker, but we can at least understand why. Playing for
Alabama in 2020 and 2021 meant that he was competing for touches with players like
Devonta Smith, John Metchie, and Jameson Williams. It would’ve been nice to see a
little more production from Baker, no doubt, but we at least saw it all come
together in 2023 for him.

The Patriots depth chart, as you read with Polk, is pretty bleak. They’re truly
building from the ground up. You can throw Polk and Baker on the perimeter, let
Demario Douglas work in the slot, and get away with it. It’s a young group, but
it’s a promising group.

Because there’s so much opportunity there, Baker will have a chance to show out
and become a key target in that offense. We shouldn’t bet on him being better than
Polk — or seeing the field before Polk — but we should be open-minded to that
possibility. He’s a good Day 3 prospect.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                               82
LUKE MCCAFFREY                                                                69.5
                                                                           ZAP Score


WR               Rice Owls (Washington Commanders)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                     Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’2” Weight:                198

Statistical Comps: Jordan Payton • Damion Ratley • Antoine Green

Update: Luke McCaffrey — who, yes, is Christian’s brother — started out his
college career at Nebraska in 2019. As a quarterback. He was a mobile passer who
didn’t get a ton of playing time, and he eventually ended up at Rice, where he
gave quarterback one last try. In 2022, he officially moved to wide receiver.

McCaffrey’s lower production totals aren’t surprising when you consider his
journey. He only played wide receiver for two seasons, and it’s kind of impressive
that he still posted yards per team pass attempt totals of 2.12 and 2.30 in his
only two seasons as a wideout.

During those two campaigns, McCaffrey played out of the slot on about 71% of his
snaps. Considering his frame, inexperience, and speed, he’s probably going to be a
slot guy in the NFL. And that works for where he was drafted, since Washington
lost their slot man, Curtis Samuel, over the offseason. McCaffrey should be
considered the favorite at this point to take on that role.

Now, if we’re being honest, with a mobile Jayden Daniels under center, that type
of job in the Commanders’ offense isn’t going to generate a ton of fantasy points.
Samuel had an underrated season for Washington last year, but this is a different
coaching staff with a different quarterback under center. McCaffrey will have a
tough time overtaking Terry McLaurin and Jahan Dotson in the offense.

In deeper formats, though, McCaffrey’s a fine enough late-round rookie dart throw.
There could still be some untapped potential with him considering he’s only played
wide receiver for a couple of years, and he’s an athlete. He comes from an
athletic family, and he posted passing, rushing, and receiving yards throughout
college. There’s nothing wrong with buying into that a little bit.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                  83
MARCUS ROSEMY-JACKSAINT                                                      17.9
                                                                         ZAP Score


WR               Georgia Bulldogs (Undrafted)            Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:              195

Statistical Comps: Jalen Brooks • James Wright • Russell Gage

Georgia has one of the most competitive programs in the country, but that doesn’t
totally excuse Marcus Rosemy-Jacksaint’s production profile. Or lack thereof.

Rosemy-Jacksaint does well in the model’s hyphenated last name metric — he matches
players like JuJu Smith—Schuster and Marquez Valdes-Scantling — but the rest of
his numbers are really lacking. He failed to register a Breakout Score after
hitting a max-season yards per team pass attempt of just 1.26. We’ve only seen two
wide receivers in the ZAP Model get even close to fantasy relevancy with Breakout
Scores of zero and yards per team pass attempt rates below 1.30: Russell Gage and
Hunter Renfrow. Gage is actually one of Rosemy-Jacksaint’s comps.

But are you really getting excited about drafting Russell Gage? And that’s
probably a 95th percentile outcome for Rosemy-Jacksaint.

Again, competition certainly played a role here. Rosemy-Jacksaint played with
legit NFL-caliber receivers at Georgia. If he couldn’t do more on the field there,
though, why should we expect anything more when he’s competing with actual NFL
receivers?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   84
JORDAN WHITTINGTON                                                              45.7
                                                                            ZAP Score


WR               Texas Longhorns (Los Angeles Rams)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                      Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                 205

Statistical Comps: Jehu Chesson • Cornell Powell • Jacob Copeland

Another wideout who competed with NFL-quality talent in college is Jordan
Whittington.

You’ve already seen the scores for Whittington’s teammates Adonai Mitchell and
Xavier Worthy, and there’s no reason to necessarily prefer Whittington over those
two players. He does have a couple of noteworthy items to his scouting report,
though.

Whittington was actually listed as a running back during a Freshman season that
was cut short after one game due to injury. He was officially a wide receiver
starting in 2020, and he hit his peak yards per team pass attempt rate of 1.87 in
2021.

That type of number isn’t going to cut it — most high-end fantasy assets see
higher yards per team pass attempt figures than that — but the fact that
Whittington got there in 2021 allowed him to have some semblance of a Breakout
Score. It was 36.2.

A huge red flag to Whittington’s profile is that he’ll be over 24 years of age at
the draft. Only one wideout in the ZAP Model’s history has gotten above eight PPR
points per game in one of his first three years in the league after being older
than 24 when he entered the league. That was John Brown, and he didn’t come from a
big program like Texas.

Whittington took a back seat to Worthy and Mitchell as primarily a slot player for
Texas during his final two seasons. He could be a bigger slot guy in the NFL if
things break his way, but if he couldn’t beat out Worthy and Mitchell, you have to
wonder if he can beat out other pro players.

There’s some versatility with Whittington, but it’s doubtful he ends up beating
the odds.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   85
JHA’QUAN JACKSON                                                                 53.4
                                                                              ZAP Score


WR               Tulane Green Wave (Tennessee Titans)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  5’9” Weight:                   188

Statistical Comps: Devon Wylie • Kaelin Clay • Chris Finke

Update: Jha’Quan Jackson has a smaller frame, and he played the majority of his
snaps out of the slot during his five years at Tulane. We should expect him to be
limited to that kind of role at the start of his NFL career.

Considering the team that drafted him — the Titans — that’s totally fine. They’ll
have veteran wideouts DeAndre Hopkins and Calvin Ridley getting a lot of reps on
the perimeter, while Treylon Burks, Kyle Philips, and, now, Jha’Quan Jackson
battle for slot work.

Jackson’s numbers don’t give me a ton of confidence. He’s 24, and he, per the
model, was never able to break out at Tulane. His Dominator Rating got him a
breakout, but the ZAP Model doesn’t care much for touchdowns.

Jackson does come with a rushing profile, and that’s really helping his ZAP score
out. There’s also a nice speed element to his game — it just didn’t show up in
production throughout college.

Considering his age and his comparables, it’d be a surprise if Jackson ended up
being a reliable fantasy contributor. Can he win the slot role for the Titans?
That’s an entirely different discussion.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     86
TAHJ WASHINGTON                                                                          40.8
                                                                                      ZAP Score


WR               Southern California Trojans (Miami Dolphins)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                                Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:                           174

Statistical Comps: Jalen Cropper • Charlie Jones • John Brown

Tahj Washington, compared to the players ranked this low in this year’s class,
does have some more favorable marks in his profile. His best season in yards per
route run is 10th-best in the class, and it was better than USC teammate Brenden
Rice. Washington actually averaged more yards and receptions per game than Rice in
each of the last two seasons.

The difference is that Washington doesn’t have the standard NFL wide receiver
build, and he ran 88% of his routes out of the slot during this two-year
timeframe. Odds are, that’s how an NFL team is going to want to use him.

Just 7 of the 34 sub-180-pound wide receivers in the ZAP Model’s database who’ve
played three years in the league ended up scoring 10-plus PPR points in one of
their first three seasons as a pro. Five of those seven were top-100 picks, and
the remaining two, Darnell Mooney and Dede Westbrook, played far more out of the
slot during their productive collegiate seasons. Each had a better Breakout Score
than Washington, too.

Maybe Washington will get drafted higher than expected, but the chance that he
becomes a high-ceiling player in fantasy seems pretty small.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                             87
JALEN COKER                                                                   18.3
                                                                          ZAP Score


WR               Holy Cross Crusaders (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                    Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:               208

Statistical Comps: Justin Watson • Tyler Johnson • Jordan Lasley

Jalen Coker is the first Holy Cross wide receiver in the ZAP Model’s database.
Needless to say, the Crusaders don’t have a standout program.

Coker’s still a pretty interesting prospect. His numbers are naturally inflated
because he went to a small school, but it’s not like every small-school wideout is
able to get to the 4.11 yards per team pass attempt level that Coker got to as a
Senior. He’s just the 22nd player since 2011 to have a best-season yards per team
pass attempt rate above 4.0.

Breakout Score is adjusted for both games played and program size, so Coker’s
score takes a hit because he played at Holy Cross. Even still, his Breakout Score
of 84.5 is seventh-best in the class.

Coker’s got the size to play the perimeter, as he did throughout college. He was
lined up out wide on 90% of his routes run across his four years at Holy Cross,
per Pro Football Focus. He can get deep, too — his average depth of targets were
well above average in three of his four seasons. It’s just always tough to know
how that’ll translate against much more difficult competition.

We can’t say that we haven’t seen a Jalen Coker type in the past. His comparables
list players who were once beloved as deep dynasty stashes and who didn’t really
come to fruition. That’s Coker’s most likely outcome, too.

But there haven’t been that many Jalen Cokers through the years. He did what he
had to do against subpar competition, and he’s got good enough size. If you want
to throw a final-round dart at the guy, be my guest.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   88
ANTHONY GOULD                                                                         49.2
                                                                                   ZAP Score


WR               Oregon State Beavers (Indianapolis Colts)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                             Draft Capital ∆
Height:                   5’8” Weight:                       174

Statistical Comps: Jarrod West • Tre Nixon • Jameon Lewis

Update: The Colts took Anthony Gould in Round 5, and, not to be rude, but you can
essentially ignore the pick for fantasy purposes.

OK, OK. We should be open to anything being possible. And Gould’s a little
interesting, I suppose, because, at his smaller size, he actually played a lot on
the perimeter in college. Per Pro Football Focus, he ran more than 200 routes in
just one of his four collegiate seasons, which came last year. And, last season,
he had a slot rate of just 7.4%. The year prior, it was 37.3%. The year before
that? That’s when he played primarily out of the slot — his rate was 90.5%.

Gould, however, has a sub-40 Breakout Score, and he’s got a bottom-five Fantasy
Points Score, too. It’s hard to see this kind of profile beating out Michael
Pittman, Josh Downs, and Adonai Mitchell over the next few years.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                          89
BUB MEANS                                                                            43.3
                                                                                  ZAP Score


WR               Pittsburgh Panthers (New Orleans Saints)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                            Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                       213

Statistical Comps: Javon McKinley • Devin Lucien • Cayleb Jones

Update: Bub Means got to college in 2019, playing defensive back for Tennessee. He
then transferred to Louisiana Tech and sat out 2020 before playing a season of
wide receiver for them in 2021. After that, Means transferred to Pitt
(#Hail2Pitt), where he’d play his final two collegiate seasons, tallying a best-
season yards per team pass attempt rate of just 2.00.

Means has good size, and he can definitely get down the field. His average depth
of target last season was 17.7. He also ranked fifth in college football in
percentage of targets that traveled 20 or more air yards.

Means can play a deep-ball role for New Orleans, but it’d be shocking if he became
something more. He has a “high risk” Draft Capital Delta, and, among the 50-plus
wide receivers drafted after Pick 150 in the ZAP Model with a high-risk tag, only
Darius Slayton and Darnell Mooney were able to reach double-digit PPR points per
game in one of their first three seasons. Both players gained dynasty value, sure,
but neither of them had a year of 13 PPR points per game.

Means is a long shot to be a reliable starter in fantasy.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                         90
RYAN FLOURNOY                                                                       35.0
                                                                                 ZAP Score


WR               Southeast Missouri Redhawks (Dallas Cowboys)    Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                           Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’1” Weight:                      202

Statistical Comps: Isaiah Weston • Amba Etta-Tawo • Byron Pringle

Ryan Flournoy’s another small-program wideout who could get drafted on Day 3, but
his numbers aren’t as strong as someone like, say, Jalen Coker.

Aside from not playing at a Power Five school, one of the biggest red flags to
Flournoy’s statistical profile is his age. He’ll be 24-and-a-half years old during
this year’s draft, making him the second-oldest wide receiver in the class. Since
2011, the best wide receiver in the ZAP Model database who was that old coming out
is probably Byron Pringle, one of Flournoy’s comps.

Google tells me that Flournoy got to college in 2018 and redshirted. At the time,
he was playing for Central Missouri. He caught just 17 balls in 2019 while playing
through injury, and it appears as though the team didn’t play in 2020 due to
COVID.

After that 2020 season, Flournoy transferred to Iowa Western Community College,
where he posted a 32-545-5 line. He finally got to his final destination,
Southeast Missouri State, in 2022, where he played two seasons.

A player going through that type of trip en route to the NFL isn’t one you
generally want to side with. It’s a cool story, and we should hope he flourishes
(Flournoyishes?), but the odds that happening are pretty small.

Flournoy’s max-season yards per team pass attempt of 3.00 got him a Breakout
Score, but, given his age, that score is just 25.0. There’s a reasonable chance he
doesn’t get drafted in April, so you can wait and see if he beats probability,
snagging him off waivers.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                        91
CORNELIUS JOHNSON                                                                      39.0
                                                                                    ZAP Score


WR               Michigan Wolverines (Los Angeles Chargers)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                              Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’3” Weight:                         212

Statistical Comps: Tyrie Cleveland • Brice Butler • Mack Hollins

Cornelius Johnson was at Michigan for five seasons, and while he wasn’t terrible,
he wasn’t elite, either. His best year in yards per team pass attempt was 1.67 (he
had a higher prorated one during the COVID year, but he only played four games),
and his top season in yards per route run ranks fifth-worst in the class.

On the positive side, Johnson did finish second on Michigan this past season in
receptions, trailing Roman Wilson — a favorite of many in this class — by one. He
has great size and caught 9 of 11 contested targets last season, per Pro Football
Focus, which was the fourth-highest mark in college football among 50-plus target
receivers. That may not translate against tougher opponents in the NFL, but he did
test well at the combine, so perhaps there’s something there.

Unless Johnson gets drafted higher than anticipated, you likely won’t have to
spend a rookie pick on him. But there are definitely worse bottom-of-the-barrel
wide receivers in this class. Johnson at least has some data points that look
good.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                           92
LIDEATRICK GRIFFIN                                                                  10.9
                                                                                ZAP Score


WR               Mississippi State Bulldogs (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                          Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’10” Weight:                     181

Statistical Comps: Marquis Maze • James Quick • Tyler Vaughns

Lideatrick Griffin is on the smaller side for a wide receiver, so his 90.6% slot
rate in 2023 isn’t very surprising. What is kind of surprising is that he barely
played in the slot at all during his three other seasons at Mississippi State. In
2022, for example, PFF has Griffin with a 2.0% slot rate.

Griffin’s numbers were best — by far — during his 2023 campaign when he manned the
slot. His season high in yards per team pass attempt from 2020 to 2022 was just
0.79. Last year? 1.89.

That’s still not a very high number, and no one should be selling Griffin as a
can’t-miss prospect. It’s just evidence to show us that he’s almost definitely
going to play the slot in the NFL, if he’s able to carve something out on a team.

As I’ve said, slot guys sometimes don’t show out in the ZAP Model, but it would
still be a shock if Griffin ends up as a roster-worthy dynasty asset. Players with
scores this low just don’t give us fantasy production.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                       93
ISAIAH WILLIAMS                                                                   28.1
                                                                              ZAP Score


WR               Illinois Fighting Illini (Undrafted)         Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                        Draft Capital ∆
Height:                    5’9” Weight:                 182

Statistical Comps: Demario Douglas • Richie James • Jameon Lewis

There are plenty of smaller, late-round slot players in this class.

Isaiah Williams is one of the most intriguing.

Williams kicked off his collegiate career at Illinois as a quarterback. He got
some playing time and had 63 pass attempts in a shortened 2020 COVID season, but
he eventually switched to wide receiver in 2021. So, really, he hasn’t been at
this very long.

Williams immediately produced. He tallied 525 receiving yards and a 1.63 receiving
yards per team pass attempt rate in 2021. In 2022, that rate grew to 1.81. Then,
this past year, he got it all the way up to 2.54. That production gave Williams a
respectable Breakout Score of 48.0, and his 76.5 Fantasy Points Score is seventh-
best in the class.

When looking at ZAP Model wide receivers who were drafted after Pick 150 and got
to a Breakout Score of 40 and a Fantasy Points Score of 70, a little over 8% gave
fantasy managers a 10-plus PPR point per game season during one of their first
three seasons as a pro. With the alternative group — players with scores below
those marks — that rate drops to a little over 2%. So Williams has a slight
advantage there.

Clearly an athlete, Williams has one of the best after-the-catch profiles in this
class. His top season in yards after the catch per reception is fifth-best among
draft-hopeful wideouts, and he ranked in the 90th percentile last season in
tackles avoided per reception.

It’s not easy finding attractive profiles from wide receivers who may not even get
drafted. Williams, though, has some worthwhile marks. He’s someone to watch during
the draft process. And his statistical comps agree.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                     94
TAYVION ROBINSON                                                            25.6
                                                                          ZAP Score


WR               Kentucky Wildcats (Undrafted)           Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                    Draft Capital ∆
Height:                 5’11” Weight:              191

Statistical Comps: Chris Owusu • Reggie Roberson • Johnny Johnson

Tayvion Robinson, like so many NFL-hopeful wide receivers these days, transferred
during his time at college. He started things off at Virginia Tech where he played
for three seasons, and his final two came at the University of Kentucky.

All in all, for a player expected to go undrafted — or, at least, that’s what it’s
looking like now — Robinson’s numbers aren’t that bad. He never had a crazy high
yards per team pass attempt rate, but his Breakout Score is 51.6 after getting
worthwhile production in 2021. He had some production all five seasons in college.

But, yeah, this profile doesn’t scream success. Robinson never had a huge average
depth of target in any college season, but that lower aDOT did allow for some
higher yards after the catch totals. It just seems unlikely that a player
Robinson’s size will be able to maintain strong after-the-catch numbers. That’s
especially true when you consider he ranked in the 26th percentile last year in
forced missed tackles per reception.

Never say never, but you can at least avoid Robinson in your rookie drafts this
year.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   95
XAVIER WEAVER                                                                 11.7
                                                                         ZAP Score


WR               Colorado Buffaloes (Undrafted)          Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                   Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’0” Weight:              169

Statistical Comps: Tevin Reese • JJ Nelson • Scott Miller

For someone with such a poor draft capital projection, Xavier Weaver’s profile
isn’t all that bad. His Breakout Score is 59.6 and his Fantasy Points Score is
46.9. Only 13 wide receivers in the 2024 class were able to get to those levels.

Weaver played at South Florida for four years before transferring to Coach Prime’s
Colorado Buffaloes in 2023. He gave us yards per team pass attempt rates above 2.0
in each of his final three seasons, including a 2022 campaign with USF that saw
him reach a 2.94 rate.

There’s not a ton of size to Weaver, but he’s fast. He was often used as a down-
field threat in college, especially in 2021 when he ended the year with a high
18.2 average depth of target.

Mock drafts don’t seem to favor or care about Weaver, and it’s highly unlikely we
see significant draft capital attached to him in April. But the depth of this wide
receiver class is sort of on display here — Weaver is an afterthought despite
having some totally fine data points.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                  96
DEVAUGHN VELE                                                                  33.8
                                                                           ZAP Score


WR               Utah Utes (Denver Broncos)              Low Risk Neutral High Risk
                                                                     Draft Capital ∆
Height:                  6’4” Weight:              203

Statistical Comps: Binjimen Victor • Stephen Guidry • Jake Wieneke

The ZAP Model database includes over 660 wide receivers. The average wide receiver
age on draft day, since 2011, has been 22.4. Meaning the ordinary wideout has been
just shy of 22-and-a-half years old prior to his particular NFL Draft.

No wide receiver in the database has come out of college football older than
Devaughn Vele.

My man is going to be almost 26-and-a-half years old when this year’s draft
starts. That’s a year-and-a-half older than Justin Jefferson. As in, Justin
Jefferson today, not when Jefferson entered the league.

It’s also a year older than any other wide receiver in the model’s history.

Vele evidently went on a religious mission trip before college, which pushed
football aside for some time. But Vele’s age is a huge reason why his ZAP score is
one of the worst we’ve ever seen. He failed to register a Breakout Score,
unsurprisingly, though his top-season in yards per team pass attempt at Utah was a
respectable 2.35. He also has an above-average Fantasy Points Score, which is kind
of crazy.

Vele’s age makes him an obvious avoid. We’ve never had a 25-year-old come out and
give us more than a single fantasy point per game at wide receiver since 2011.
Expecting goodness from a 26-year-old is a low-probability thought.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                   97
Tight End


       Player            College            Team       ZAP                     Notes

                                                              Elite prospect; Weird spot with Mayer in
 Brock Bowers             Georgia           Raiders    99.3
                                                              the mix
                                                              Decent destination; Would've liked
 Ben Sinnott           Kansas State       Commanders   83.9   slightly better production and
                                                              athleticism
                                                              Epic athletic profile; Horrific landing
 Tip Reiman               Illinois         Cardinals   81.8
                                                              spot

                                                              Elite athlete; poor production profile;
 Theo Johnson           Penn State           Giants    73.4
                                                              Interesting landing spot

                                                              Model loves him; Small size for a
 Jaheim Bell           Florida State        Patriots   68.5
                                                              productive tight end

                                                              Pretty good production; Pretty good
 Ja'Tavion Sanders        Texas             Panthers   67.8
                                                              landing spot; Above-average prospect

                                                              Arguably second-best production profile
 Erick All                 Iowa             Bengals    63.6
                                                              behind Bowers; Strong landing spot

                                                              Reunited with CJ Stroud; Relatively
 Cade Stover            Ohio State          Texans     51.7
                                                              ordinary profile

                                                              Average athleticism with below-averge
 AJ Barner               Michigan          Seahawks    50.3
                                                              production

                                                              Below-average production with decent
 Jared Wiley          Texas Christian        Chiefs    44.1
                                                              athleticism; Older

                                                              Oldest tight end drafted; Good size and
 Tanner McLachlan         Arizona           Bengals    20.3
                                                              decent speed

                                                              Great athlete; Poor draft capital; Not
 Devin Culp             Washington        Buccaneers   6.3
                                                              young




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                       98
The Year 2 Model
Overview

We learn more about players with time. A rookie entering the NFL is a
whole lot more unpredictable than a six-year veteran. You’re looking at a
player who’s never stepped foot on an NFL eld versus one who’s
potentially played close to 100 games in the league.

Naturally, after a player gets through his rookie season, we understand
more about his game. Puka Nacua got to Rams camp last summer as an
unknown to many, and he ended up having one of the greatest rookie
wide receiver seasons we’ve ever seen. And now we can adjust
accordingly.

But how, exactly, should we adjust?

That’s where the Year 2 Model comes into play.



       The goal of the Year 2 Model is to be much better
       at predicting a player’s second- and third-year
       production than a player’s rookie-season points
       per game average.
The Year 2 Model — both at running back and wide receiver —
incorporates a player’s prospect score, some rookie-season production
inputs, and his rookie-season points per game average to get a Year 2
score. That’s the gist of it.

Everything in the Year 2 Model ties back to a player’s max-season PPR
points per game during his second or third season. So if a player scored




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                           99


                                fi
16 and 19 points per game during his second and third season in the
NFL, respectively, the model only cares about that 19 points per game
mark.

As you’d guess, the Year 2 Model is much better at predicting a player’s
best points per game season in Year 2 or Year 3 than his rookie-season
points per game average alone.

To me, this all is logical.



        If a player came from nowhere — if a guy
        wasn’t supposed to be good, but he balled out
        during his rookie year — then there’s more risk
        with that player than if an early-round pick did the
        exact same thing.
There’s more risk with, say, Dontayvion Wicks going into 2024 than
there is with Josh Downs. It doesn’t mean Wicks can’t or won’t outscore
Downs over the next two seasons. It’s that Downs has more substance to
his baseline, which puts us — should put us — more at ease.

The Year 2 Model can help us out when higher draft selections
underperform, too. Is Jaxon Smith-Njigba, last year’s consensus top
wide receiver, doomed? What about Quentin Johnston?

Similar to the ZAP Model, there are easy-to-understand probability
charts for the Year 2 Model.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                          100
Of the wide receivers drafted since 2011 with three-plus seasons in the
league who had a Year 2 score between 95 and 100, nearly every single
one gave us a PPR points per game season of 12 or more in either Year 2
or Year 3. A solid 60% of them hit 16 or more PPR points.

As you move from group to group, the hit rates predictably change. Wide
receivers with scores in the 75 to 80 range almost always fail to give you
a super usable season in Year 2 or Year 3. Below the 70 mark? Good
luck.

So people are aware, the wide receiver Year 2 Model changed a bit from
last year. New inputs were inserted, and the model became even more
predictive.

The model looks pretty good at running back, too, but the visual isn’t as
clean.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            101
          Running back is a tougher position to project than wide receiver. If a
          coach decides to split his back eld, then that’s going to ruin the fantasy
          upside for a running back. You don’t really run into that issue at wide
          receiver since so many are on the eld at once.

          With all that being said, it’s pretty clear that a high-end score at running
          back yields amazing results. If a running back gets a score over 90, he’s
          looking like a good bet to at least be an RB2 in fantasy football during
          the second or third year of his career.

          You may notice that, after the 90 range, things start to drop o . And,
          given the probability charts, there doesn’t appear to be that big of a
          di erence between a player in the 70 to 75 range versus one in the 85 to
          90 one. The 70 to 75 range actually looks better than the 85 to 90 one!

          This has to do with a few things. One is variance. These buckets are
          arbitrary and only exist as general guidelines. It’s not surprising that
          we’d see some funky results when you consider the sample size within
          each group.

          Second, it’s important to keep in mind that we’re dealing with single-
          season output here. With the prospect models, we’re looking at a
          player’s top-two seasons in PPR points per game across his rst three in
          the league. With this, it’s just one “max” season. Results can uctuate
          more.

          The nal reason — the most important one, in my eyes — is
          replaceability.



                  Nerds have been writing about it for years, but
                  non-elite running backs are sort of
                  interchangeable in fantasy football.
          That’s exactly what this table is showing.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              102


                                                                  fl   ff
                                                             fi
                                   fi
                              fi
     fi
ff
     The Year 2 Model looks at the running back landscape and says we
     should prefer a score of 80 over one of 70. But, at the end of the day,
     players with those types of scores are just similar. They’re relatively
     replaceable guys who could go either way, depending on how their
     coaching sta s want to treat them. They’re not obvious, Tier 1 running
     backs.

     The running back Year 2 Model really comes down to three high-level
     groups. You’ve got the elite di erence-makers who typically score above
     a 90. There’s a cluster of “maybes” between 70 and 90. And once you
     get below 70, the running backs start becoming a lot more questionable.


     Journey Comparables
     Skyy Moore had a really disappointing rookie season.

     There was hope that he’d be a legitimate weapon for Patrick Mahomes’
     Chiefs at a time when they desperately needed one, but he was buried
     on Kansas City’s depth chart. He didn’t do much contributing as a
     receiver for that o ense, despite the unit’s success in 2022.

     According to the ZAP Model, Moore entered the league with a score of
     85.8. After a poor rookie season, that score fell by about eight points in
     the Year 2 Model.

     You can see, using the tables above, that a score of 77 gave Moore not-
     great odds of nishing as anything more than a WR3 — at best — during
     his second and third seasons in the league.

     But had we seen anyone else overcome this sort of drop in year-over-
     year score?

     Enter Journey Comparables.

     You’ve probably already read about statistical comparables with the ZAP
     Model pro les earlier. Journey Comparables are a little di erent. Rather
     than looking at a player’s attributes as he enters the league, Journey
     Comparables inspect a player’s ZAP Model score alongside his Year 2




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            103


                                                    ff
                       ff
                ff
           fi
      ff
fi
Model score. It then looks at players in history who have gone through a
similar path — a similar journey — from before Year 1 to before Year 2.

Journey Comparables don’t deal with play style, height, weight, or any
other qualities. It’s simply a look at players in history who entered the
league as similarly graded prospects, and then who went into their
second season with a comparable Year 2 Model score as well.

Moore’s top Journey Comparables last season were Andy Isabella, DJ
Chark, and Terrace Marshall. Things were not looking good. So his score,
alongside those comps, made him an easy player to avoid in dynasty.

History often repeats itself. In fantasy football, too.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                           104
          2024 Year 2 Model Pro les
          Overview
          Were you a fortunate soul who lucked into one of the greatest rookie
          wide receivers of all time in the fourth round of your rookie draft last
          year?

          Sure, sure. Drafting Puka Nacua wasn’t only some lucky break. Maybe
          you read last year’s prospect guide and fell in love with his elite
          collegiate yards per route run rate. Maybe you did your homework and
          saw the hype he was receiving in camp over last summer. Maybe you
          watched him make some ridiculous plays at BYU.

          You still didn’t expect this.

          Now that you’ve got Nacua…what’s next?

          I got you.

          Over the nal section of this guide, you’ll read about all relevant wide
          receivers and running backs from last year’s draft class.



                  You’ll see where the Year 2 Model has them
                  ranked, and you’ll get insight on how to manage
                  each player moving forward.
          Let’s re ne those dynasty rosters.




          Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
          Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                          105


                                                fi
     fi
fi
Key Terms

ZAP Score: The score given to an incoming rookie in the ZAP Model. It’s
based on the factors outlined in the ZAP Model Overview section of this
guide. For pre-draft scores, the draft capital input is based on projected
draft capital from NFLMockDraftDatabase.com. All scores range from 0
to 100.

Y2 Score: The score given to a running back or wide receiver in the Year
2 Model. This is based on rookie-season numbers along with a player’s
ZAP score. All scores range from 0 to 100.

Expected Max PPR PPG Season: The estimated outcome in best-season
PPR points per game in Year 2 or Year 3 for a particular player. This is
simply a median, so the number is likely smaller than expected.

Journey Comparables: Players in history who have had similar ZAP and
Year 2 Model scores.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                            106
Running Back


BIJAN ROBINSON                                                              99.3
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Atlanta Falcons
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       17.4
                                                                            99.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Todd Gurley • Ezekiel Elliott • Leonard Fournette

Some would consider Bijan Robinson’s first year in the NFL as a disappointment,
but that’s likely due to his acquisition cost. Robinson gave us the 22nd-best
rookie running back season by PPR points per game since 2011. His average was
better than, as an example, Christian McCaffrey’s.

A key reason Robinson didn’t see a ton of movement with his ZAP score to his Year
2 one is because he was heavily involved as a receiver as a rookie. When looking
at first-year backs since 2011, Robinsons’ per-game target share rate trailed only
Christian McCaffrey, Saquon Barkley, and Alvin Kamara. That translated into a
pretty elite total yards per team play rate.

The receiving side of the equation is very predictive at running back, so that
helped Robinson maintain an elite score in the model.

In the end, Arthur Smith really ruined Robinson’s rookie year. The Falcons only
gave their first-year back 47.6% of the team’s running back rushes, when everyone
knows he’s capable of handling a much bigger workload. Smith also failed to use
Robinson as the team’s primary goal-line back for half of the season. Once that
piece to Robinson’s workload shifted, his PPR points per game average rose by
four. He became an RB1.

We’ve seen two players with a similar-ish Year 2 score bust since 2011. One was
Doug Martin, who didn’t enter the league with the same type of prospect score as
Robinson. Martin just had a monster rookie campaign that boosted his tally. His
Year 2 score wasn’t as high as Robinson’s, either.

The other is Trent Richardson. There were some signs — especially when it came to
efficiency — that Richardson had at least some chance to fail after we caught a
glimpse of him in the NFL.

It’d be shocking if Robinson went down that path. With a new coaching staff, we
should feel good about his prospects.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 107
JAHMYR GIBBS                                                                  98.1
                                                                            Y2 Score


RB               Detroit Lions
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       16.7
                                                                             98.4
                                                                           ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Christian McCaffrey • Jonathan Taylor • Leonard Fournette

When you watch Jahmyr Gibbs and Bijan Robinson, you’ll see two totally different
running back styles. Throughout their careers, they’re going to score fantasy
points in different ways.

But as it relates to the models, they’re really not all that different.

Robinson entered the league with a ZAP score of 99, while Gibbs’ score was just a
point below that. And, today, we’re looking at a similar situation with the Year 2
Model.

It’s no problem if someone prefers Gibbs to Robinson in dynasty, because his
rookie-season performance was just as good, if not better. Gibbs was flashier, and
his ability to create gigantic plays was obvious. He ended up with a 5.5% 20-plus-
yard run rate, marking just the 10th time a running back has hit that high of a
percentage on 150 or more carries since 2011.

We also saw Gibbs’ workload get better and better as the year went on. Teammate
David Montgomery was sidelined for a period of time in the middle of the season,
returning to action in Week 10. From Week 10 onward, Montgomery had a 54% running
back rush share and about a 5% target share per game rate in Detroit’s offense.
Gibbs was at roughly 46% and 12%, respectively, which were numbers far higher than
what he’d been seeing earlier in the year.

What might be most important about that “Week 10 onward” split is that, despite
Montgomery being Detroit’s goal-line back, the two runners saw the same number of
carries within their opponent’s 10-yard line. Montgomery had just one more rush
attempt within the five, too.

Montgomery is going to be around for at least 2024, and that’ll limit Gibbs’
upside. Even still, the Lions look like they’ll be strong offensively in the short
term, and they don’t seem to be afraid of leaning on their duo. The situation and
skill-set should lead to a lot of fantasy points for Gibbs.

Those Journey Comparables are looking pret-tay nice, aren’t they?




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                108
DE’VON ACHANE                                                               94.4
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Miami Dolphins
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       14.9
                                                                            85.0
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Alvin Kamara • Miles Sanders • DeMarco Murray

One of the things that last year’s prospect guide (hopefully) drove into your
noggin was that De’Von Achane’s landing spot with Miami was absolutely perfect.
Pairing his speed with Mike McDaniel’s zone scheme was brilliant.

We saw why in 2023.

Achane is unlike any player we’ve ever seen before. At least in recent history.
Sure, there’ve been guys who’ve gone from an 85 ZAP Model score to a 94 to 95 Year
2 one. That’s nothing new. But Achane’s size, speed, and efficiency combination
this past year was totally unique.

Yards per carry isn’t the most useful metric in the world, but it’s hard to just
blow past Achane’s 7.8 yards per attempt rate last season. We’ve now seen 27
running back seasons in NFL history where the back carried the rock 100 or more
times while hitting a 6.0 yards per carry rate. We’ve now seen one running back
season in NFL history where the back carried the rock 100 or more times while
hitting a 7.0 yards per carry rate.

And he hit a freaking 7.8 average.

Size remains a question mark for Achane. We know he can be a beast on limited
touches, and that’ll keep him in the mix for a while. The issue is on the ceiling
front. He had trouble staying healthy as a rookie, and he hit a 60% running back
rush share in just one game. It’s not to say that he needs that rushing work, but
it would sure make him a better fantasy asset if he had it.

Nevertheless, Alvin Kamara being his top Journey Comparable says a lot. And it
should make you feel good about Achane. Kamara has a lot more size, but the way he
scores fantasy points — that archetype — is what we’re hoping for with Achane. A
14% to 15% target share to go along with 40% to 50% of his team’s running back
rushes is in Achane’s range of outcomes over the next handful of seasons. And if
he gets there, thanks to his offensive fit and skill-set, he could,
hypothetically, give us spiked RB1 seasons. At the very least, we know he’s
capable of some monster performances week to week.

I’d have a hard time trading Achane away after what we saw in Year 1.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 109
TYJAE SPEARS                                                                90.5
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Tennessee Titans
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.2
                                                                            78.6
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Michael Carter • Antonio Gibson • Devin Singletary

One of the hottest names in dynasty this offseason is — will be — Tyjae Spears.
With Derrick Henry likely out of Tennessee (this is being written before the start
of free agency), Spears is looking like the starter. For now, at least.

Spears’ rookie season was impressive given the limited role he played. His 14.8%
target share was one of the higher ones you’ll find among first-year running backs
since 2011, and he stayed close to teammate Derrick Henry in expected points added
per carry and success rate on the ground.

One issue you’re going to run into with Spears is that some are undeniably going
to price him at a premium over the next handful of months. There’s no one ahead of
him on the depth chart. He looked so explosive at times during his rookie season.
Imagine a world where he’s toting the rock 200 to 250 times with a 15% target
share instead of the 100 carries he had in 2023.

It’s hard to ignore the upside. Spears has a Year 2 score north of 90, and he was
able to get there as a part-time rookie. Of the running backs who’ve played three
NFL seasons since 2011 who had a Year 2 score between 87 and 93, 18% scored 17 or
more PPR points per game in either their second or third season. Roughly 32% of
them got to 14 or more PPR points per game, which is an RB2 campaign.

That may seem low, but considering how few running backs are able to actually hit
those marks, it’s actually a pretty strong group for Spears to be part of.

The top question with Spears is what’ll happen if he is indeed the 1A in the
Tennessee backfield. Like the aforementioned De’Von Achane, Spears is a little
undersized. Could the Titans bring in a bigger-bodied back to help him out? To
perhaps be the goal-line guy? Those are real concerns.

And the difference between Spears and someone like Achane is that the latter is
not only a better player, but he’s playing in a much more advantageous situation.
Can Spears get by on a non-bell-cow workload in an up-in-the-air offense?

There are a lot of things pointing to Spears being a legit fantasy option. He’s
got the athleticism to take him places. But there are still some worries.
Considering his current dynasty price tag, he’s someone to probably not target in
a trade or trade away this offseason.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                110
ZACH CHARBONNET                                                             90.3
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Seattle Seahawks
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.1
                                                                            92.0
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: JK Dobbins • Bishop Sankey • Ameer Abdullah

As you know, the ZAP Model doesn’t factor in landing spot. If a player ends up
getting drafted by a really favorable team — like we saw with the aforementioned
De’Von Achane — he’s not getting some sort of score boost. We’re just grading the
players themselves here.

That’s all important for Zach Charbonnet because, last offseason, the Seahawks
decided to draft him despite having Kenneth Walker on their roster. Charbonnet was
a good prospect — he looked pretty good objectively — but it was hard to rank him
with all the uncertainty in that Seattle backfield.

We got some answers during the 2023 season. Charbs, as the team’s RB2, ended up
seeing about a 65/35 or 70/30 split with Walker. He then matched Walker in the
receiving game. He wasn’t overly effective as a pass-catcher, but his pass
blocking was superior to Walker’s, per Pro Football Focus.

Surprisingly, Charbonnet wasn’t tremendously worse as a runner compared to Walker.
In fact, you could argue the opposite. Charbonnet had a better rushing yards over
expected per carry. His expected points added per carry was almost identical. His
success rate was about a percentage and a half point better than Walker’s.

Walker, known for his big-play ability, actually had worse 10-plus- and 20-plus-
yard run rates than Charbonnet last year. And Charbs gained positive yards at a
much better clip, too.

This isn’t a total apples to apples comparison because the backs played different
roles, but it’s nice to know that Charbonnet competed well as a rookie.

That’s what makes this so difficult. There’s a new coaching staff in Seattle, and
that coaching staff may favor one of the backs more than the other. We don’t know
yet. What we do know is that Charbonnet does indeed look like he could be a James
Conner-type player, someone he compared closely to entering the league last
season. It’s just that James Conner with backfield competition isn’t someone
you’re eagerly trying to draft or trade for in fantasy football.

Charbonnet’s Journey Comparables are pretty iffy. Even though he’s just above the
90 mark in the Year 2 Model, I still probably wouldn’t be aggressive in targeting
him this offseason. He’s more of a hold.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 111
ROSCHON JOHNSON                                                             82.5
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Chicago Bears
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.1
                                                                            68.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Jamaal Williams • Javorious Allen • Brian Robinson

Roschon Johnson had a lower ZAP score than he should have had after playing behind
one of the best running back prospects of the decade throughout college.
Situations like that don’t happen often, but, when they do, we can just toss in a
little bit of subjectivity into our analysis. There’s nothing wrong with that.

Johnson’s rookie season was solid. Despite sharing a backfield with two capable
runners in Khalil Herbert and D’Onta Foreman, he ended the year with a 25.5%
running back rush share per game rate, and, more importantly, a 9.5% target share
per game rate.

Johnson’s just the eighth running back in the Year 2 Model to have had a sub-70
ZAP score before hitting a 9% target share per game average as a rookie. Four of
those eight running backs gave fantasy managers a double-digit PPR point per game
season in either their second or third year in the league. Three were over the 12-
point threshold, and another was almost at 15.

That doesn’t scream “league-winner”, no, but it’s not a bad outcome for a player
with a low ZAP score. Remember, these scores are predictive. Expecting the world
from a player like Johnson would just be unfair.

Johnson does have some things working in his favor entering 2024. D’Onta Foreman
is currently a free agent, and Khalil Herbert is entering the final year of his
rookie deal. With a potential upgrade at quarterback — and one that would be less
mobile than Justin Fields — Johnson could be in store for a solid backfield share
as soon as this upcoming season.

The receiving profile is intriguing here. And Johnson’s Journey Comparables really
aren’t that bad. He’s a pretty good trade target this offseason, and he’s looking
like a nice early value in Underdog drafts, too. If you’d rather wait to pounce
after the free agency period, that makes plenty of sense, because the Bears have
been tied to some of the available running backs out there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              112
KENDRE MILLER                                                                75.7
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               New Orleans Saints
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.8
                                                                            79.8
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Jay Ajayi • Bernard Pierce • Robert Turbin

There’s a fine line in fantasy football between projecting an increased workload
for a player and actually buying into that increased workload.

New Orleans has a potential out with Alvin Kamara’s contract this offseason, so we
can and should feel excited about Kendre Miller maybe seeing more work in the
Saints backfield. He entered the NFL last season as the second-youngest back in
his draft class, and he has the size to handle a lot of touches in the league.

Should we buy into that possible projection?

History can help us balance upside with reality. Miller’s 5.4 PPR points per game
average in 2023 puts him in a spot where he’ll need to be somewhat of an outlier
to be a difference-maker in fantasy football over the next two years. Since 2011,
the ZAP Model database has seen a little over 300 running backs score fewer than
6.0 PPR points per game as rookies after getting a ZAP score below 85. Miller,
with a ZAP score of 78.7, is part of that group.

Just four of those running backs had a Year 2 or Year 3 season with 16 or more PPR
points per game scored. Only seven hit 14 or more PPR points per game.

Now, that sample is filled with running backs who weren’t nearly as good as Miller
when they were entering the league. You could limit this to ZAP scores between 75
and 85, though, and find that not a single one of the 23 hit 15 or more PPR points
in either Year 2 or Year 3 of their careers.

When running backs show us little as rookies, they tend to not perform
exceptionally well in subsequent seasons. You’ll get a Kyren Williams or Devonta
Freeman type every once in a while, but that’s the exception, not the rule.

It’s fine to be excited about Miller’s potential jump in workload in 2024, because
he is a young player. He did play behind a good running back in Year 1. He was
banged up throughout the season.

Just remember to level out that enthusiasm with a little rationality.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              113
KEATON MITCHELL                                                              71.4
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Baltimore Ravens
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.8
                                                                            34.0
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Isiah Pacheco • Jeff Wilson • Thomas Rawls

It’s rare to see undrafted players do what Keaton Mitchell did as a rookie. In the
ZAP Model database, the only undrafted rookie backs to hit 8.0 or more PPR points
per game — something Mitchell accomplished — were Thomas Rawls and James Robinson.
That alone makes Mitchell unlike most backs.

When you layer his size on top, things get even wilder. Mitchell weighed in at 179
pounds at the NFL Combine, making him, among all combine-invited players, the
second sub-180-pound running back since 2011 to score more than 2.0 fantasy points
per game in one of his first three years in the league. The only other back this
small to even sniff a fantasy lineup was Tarik Cohen.

Keaton Mitchell is an outlier, and we need to treat him as such.

Now, Mitchell suffered a pretty gruesome ACL injury in Week 15, so his beginning-
of-the-season status is in question. Let’s push that aside to keep this less
complex.

Mitchell’s top Journey Comparable — remember, these are not stylistic comps — is
Isiah Pacheco. Pacheco was looked at more favorably as a prospect within the
model, but he grew his Year 2 score into something that was manageable, similar to
Mitchell.

The fact that Pacheco’s continued onward with his growth isn’t normal. We usually
see a Thomas Rawlsian path to irrelevancy. So, theoretically, we should feel the
same for someone like Mitchell.

Not so fast.

Remember: Mitchell is an outlier. He was not like rookie Jeff Wilson. Or rookie
Thomas Rawls. Or even rookie Isiah Pacheco. He was better.

In 2023, Mitchell was second behind only De’Von Achane in running back success
rate. He was first in yards per carry over expected per rush. He was fantastic.

We’re not likely to see Mitchell take on 200-plus carries in the NFL. But in a
fantasy football world where mid-range running backs are seeing their volume
shrink, Mitchell can see just enough work to give you a potential RB2 season.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 114
CHASE BROWN                                                                  64.1
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Cincinnati Bengals
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.2
                                                                            60.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Justice Hill • DeeJay Dallas • La’Mical Perine

Chase Brown’s future dynasty potential depends a whole lot on Joe Mixon. The
veteran is a free agent in 2025, but the Bengals could get rid of him this
offseason. If they opt to nix him, then Brown could be elevated to starter in the
offense. Even if Cincinnati chooses to keep Mixon around, Brown could still help
your fantasy rosters. Because he brings an element that Mixon doesn’t: explosion.

In 2023, Brown carried the ball 44 times. He gained 20 or more yards on 2 of those
rushes, giving him a 20-plus-yard run rate of 4.6%. Mixon’s been above 2.5% within
that statistic just once in his entire career.

It’s a small sample size, sure, but it plays into what we knew about Brown as he
entered the league. He ran a 4.43 40 at the combine last year, giving him a 90th
percentile Speed Score. He’s capable of making splash plays.

We saw that ability in 2023. Not only did he break off just one fewer 20-plus-yard
run than Mixon on 213 fewer carries, but 2 of his 14 receptions went that
distance, too. His big-play receiving rate was higher than Mixon’s as well.

It’s very possible that Brown ends up digging more into Mixon’s workload in 2024.
If Mixon is a Bengal, of course. We witnessed that happening down the stretch this
past season, where Brown had a 30% running back rush share across his final six
games. Is it that crazy to think he could improve on that?

With all that being noted, we have to ground ourselves a little here. Brown was a
fine prospect within the context of where he was drafted, but Day 3 running backs
who did little in Year 1 typically don’t become fantasy starters.

From 2011 to 2021, there were 110 running backs drafted after Pick 100 who scored
fewer than 5.0 PPR points per game as rookies. Brown was at 4.5. Of those 110,
only James Conner and Myles Gaskin scored 16 or more PPR points in either Year 2
or Year 3. Kyren Williams got there this past year, too, but we’re looking at
backs who’ve played three years in the league.

If someone is making the assumption that Brown would be a bell-cow without Mixon
around, then you may actually be able to sell Brown high right now. Players with a
Year 2 score of 64 don’t work out very often at all.



Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              115
TANK BIGSBY                                                                 63.4
                                                                          Y2 Score


RB               Jacksonville Jaguars
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.1
                                                                            82.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Christine Michael • Ke’Shawn Vaughn • Benny Snell

We’ve seen Tank Bigsby seasons before. Christine Michael, after getting selected
62nd overall in 2013, had a ZAP score of 82.7. (Props to the ZAP Model for giving
him a horrible Draft Capital Delta, by the way.) After a whole lot of nothing as a
rookie, Michael’s Year 2 score sat at 66.8.

Look familiar?

How about Ke’Shawn Vaughn? Vaughn was a Day 2 pick who had a ZAP Model score of
83.2. After failing to produce as a first-year NFLer, Vaughn’s Year 2 score fell
below 70.

Seems a little Bigsbian, doesn’t it?

Bigsby deserves to have this poor of a Year 2 Model score. On limited touches last
year, his rate of gaining 10-plus yards on the ground sat at 2.0%. That was the
fifth-worst figure among 50-plus attempt running backs since 2011. He showed
absolutely no burst.

The only player to overcome a drop this significant in ZAP score to Year 2 score
since 2011 has been, ironically, Travis Etienne. But the only reason Etienne’s
score dropped was because he missed his entire rookie campaign.

It’s really, really tough to paint this favorably for Bigsby. He was just…bad.
It’s looking like a minor miss from the ZAP Model, and it’s looking like you’re
going to need some luck — and probably an injury — to see Bigsby in your starting
lineup.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              116
Wide Receiver


PUKA NACUA                                                                  99.5
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Los Angeles Rams
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       17.9
                                                                            56.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Terry McLaurin • Amon-Ra St. Brown • Tyreek Hill

Maybe this isn’t good for business, but you can throw Puka Nacua’s Journey
Comparables straight into the trash. There has not been a player like him since at
least 2011. There really hasn’t been a player like him in NFL history.

Nacua looks better in the ZAP Model than last year’s Z-Prospect one, but his 56.7
ZAP score isn’t anything special. What should we have expected from a fifth-
rounder who couldn’t produce at Washington for two years before having average
production at BYU? Certainly not a 99.5 Year 2 score, that’s for sure.

The Journey Comparables listed for Nacua are players who had iffier prospect
profiles — whether due to lack of production or poorer draft capital — before
tearing things up as rookies. None of them saw this kind of jump, though. Not even
close.

Nacua’s Year 2 score places him with superstar talent. The wideouts with scores
above 99 in the Year 2 Model include AJ Green, Mike Evans, Odell Beckham, AJ
Brown, Justin Jefferson, and Ja’Marr Chase. Five of those six wideouts had at
least one season in either Year 2 or Year 3 with 19-plus PPR points per game. The
only one who didn’t get there was AJ Brown, and he scored 17.2.

The difference between Nacua and all of those pass-catchers is that their ZAP
Model scores were much better. None, in fact, were below 94.

Puka Nacua, my friends, is the most unique young wide receiver we’ve ever seen.

It’s understandable if you feel a little apprehensive to buy into Nacua given that
poorer prospect score. But, as we know, the Year 2 Model is more predictive. How a
player performs as a rookie can really tell us how he’ll do as a veteran. And
Nacua was unreal in 2023. His 28.7% target share per game rate ranked third-best
among rookie wideouts since 2011. His 2.59 yards per route run was fourth. His
0.28 targets per route run ranked second. And he did it while playing a healthy
mix of perimeter receiver and slot receiver.

Puka Nacua is a cornerstone player in dynasty.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 117
ZAY FLOWERS                                                                 96.8
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Baltimore Ravens
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       16.1
                                                                            90.4
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Calvin Ridley • JuJu Smith-Schuster • Keenan Allen

Some may think Zay Flowers just did what he was supposed to do as a first-rounder
in the NFL Draft, but he exceeded expectation. Flowers hit an impressive 24.1%
target share per game rate as a rookie, his yards per route run was an above-
average 1.64, and he played all over the field. He showed us — and the NFL — that
his smaller frame really didn’t matter.

Flowers is, at the moment, a pretty safe dynasty investment. His top Journey
Comparables range from OK to studly, but other players who were close to being
listed include Deebo Samuel, Brandon Aiyuk, and Tee Higgins. They’re guys who
ranked in the low 90s as prospects, and they were able to get over the 94 to 95
mark in the Year 2 Model.

Some may be turned off by Flowers’ lower average depth of target in 2023, since it
ranked in just the 17th percentile among 50-plus target wide receivers this past
season. I’m not. Flowers was still getting plenty of down-the-field looks — his
rate of seeing a 15-plus air yard throw fell into the 46th percentile among the
same group. Baltimore just threw to Flowers a decent bit behind the line of
scrimmage, lowering his aDOT. That tells me — us — that they were just trying to
get their playmaker the ball more.

If you’ve got Flowers in dynasty, you should feel great about it. If you don’t,
he’s not someone you need to buy, but players in his Year 2 range tend to do quite
well during their second and third years in the league.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 118
RASHEE RICE                                                                 95.7
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Kansas City Chiefs
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       14.9
                                                                            77.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Chase Claypool • DK Metcalf • TY Hilton

A lot of fantasy managers are super high on Rashee Rice, and it’s easy to see why.
His Year 1 yards per route run rate was seventh-best among qualified rookie wide
receivers since 2011. As the season went on, his production only got better — he
finished the year with an 18.2% target share per game, but that number was 27.3%
over his final six regular-season games. That’s…incredible.

Making a “buy” case for Rice isn’t terribly difficult. Six wide receivers between
2011 and 2021 (so they’ve played three years in the NFL) in the Year 2 Model hit
10-plus PPR points per game as rookies while getting to a 2.20 yards per route run
rate. Five of those six are considered some of the best wide receivers of the
decade — Odell Beckham, Tyreek Hill, AJ Brown, Justin Jefferson, and Ja’Marr
Chase. We’ve added more to that list over the last couple of seasons, and Rice is
one of them.

Sweet. So we’re all good then, yeah?

Not quite.

The way Rice scored points as a rookie was different than the way, say, AJ Brown
scored points. Among 50-plus target rookie wideouts since 2011, Rice’s average
depth of target ranked ahead of only Jarvis Landry and Rondale Moore. That’s
because, according to PFF’s data, among all receivers with 50 or more targets this
past year, Rice ranked second in percentage of targets that came from screens. In
other words, the Chiefs were doing what they could do to manufacture touches for
Rice.

That’s not necessarily a bad thing! Forcing the ball into Rice’s hands tells us
that he’s at least got some talent. And Rice does. His yards after the catch
ability is fantastic.

What this does tell us is that we just don’t fully know yet. Rice is capable of
developing more as a wide receiver and becoming something special. He’s attached
to Patrick Mahomes, too, which doesn’t hurt. But his Journey Comparables tell us a
more complicated story than his numbers indicate.

I wouldn’t trade Rice away this offseason, but I wouldn’t be aggressively trading
for him, either, thanks to the market understandably loving on him.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 119
JORDAN ADDISON                                                              95.0
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Minnesota Vikings
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       14.9
                                                                            94.5
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Marquise Brown • DJ Moore • Jordan Matthews

Some of the things we look for in a rookie wide receiver weren’t perfect for
Jordan Addison in 2023. Among 50-plus target rookie wideouts since 2011, his yards
per route run finished in the 40th percentile. His targets per route run was even
worse, ranking in the 33rd percentile.

Those numbers will take somewhat of a hit when you’re playing alongside Justin
Jefferson. It also doesn’t help when your team doesn’t always throw you out onto
the field in two-wide receiver sets. When playing mostly in 11 personnel, there
are more options for the quarterback, lowering those numbers.

Even still, those types of figures are predictive. And that’s a reason why Addison
isn’t looked at as favorably — despite a better ZAP score — as someone like Zay
Flowers and Rashee Rice.

He’s still a dynasty asset you want, though. He had about an 18% target share per
game rate, and he had a PPR points per game average that aligned with Chris Olave
during his rookie campaign. That’s largely due to touchdowns — and he’s due for
some regression there — but it’s good to see that his smaller frame didn’t exclude
him from finding the end zone in Year 1.

Having Marquise Brown and DJ Moore as Journey Comparables is solid. Jordan
Matthews is there, too, and that may seem like a red flag, but Matthews actually
held dynasty value pretty well prior to his demise.

It’s unclear if Addison has top-12 ability at the position, but he’s someone you
can slot into your WR2 spot and feel pretty good about it.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              120
JAYDEN REED                                                                 94.2
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Green Bay Packers
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       14.4
                                                                            82.6
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Stefon Diggs • Torrey Smith • Diontae Johnson

One of the bigger hits in last year’s prospect guide was Jayden Reed. His prospect
score wasn’t unbelievable, but there were a lot of things to like about his
profile. In college, he lined up all over the formation, he was used in the run
game, and one of his top statistical comparables was Stefon Diggs.

Wait a minute. Stefon Diggs is his top Journey Comparable, too?

Whew.

Reed came through with a top-20 yards per route run rate among qualified rookie
wide receivers since 2011. We saw his versatility on display throughout the
season, too, as he rushed 11 times for 119 yards and a pair of scores.

There’s a nice ceiling for Reed in the league — did I mentioned Stefon Diggs is
one of his top comps? — but there’s some room for pessimism. We saw Reed’s usage
and production dip when competition was added to the offense. For instance, during
last year’s regular season, when Christian Watson was sidelined, Reed averaged a
target share per game of 21.6%. When Watson was active, that number fell to just
14.6%. His PPR points per game average went from 16.5 without Watson to 11.3 with
him.

Reed was a rookie, so we’ve got to cut him some slack, sure, but we’d ideally like
to see more reliability in and out of a split like that.

The Packers also did an amazing job adding weapons in the draft last year. Both of
their rookie tight ends from 2023 look legit, and Dontayvion Wicks, who you’ll
read about in a second, had a surprisingly great season as well. If Reed isn’t a
top wide receiver — and, like Rashee Rice, we just don’t have that answer yet —
then he’s unlikely to be in a position where he can produce elite numbers for
fantasy given the competition on his team. If he was in a spot without such
promise at pass-catcher, he’d be an easier player to buy over the next few months.

For now, we can hold onto the fact that a Year 2 score of 94.2 is very, very good.
The chance that he completely fades is extremely low, with most players in his
range giving us a WR2 or WR3 season in Year 2 or Year 3.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 121
TANK DELL                                                                     93.6
                                                                             Y2 Score


WR               Houston Texans
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.9
                                                                               73.1
                                                                            ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Amon-Ra St. Brown • Cooper Kupp • Terry McLaurin

Tank Dell entered the league as a slightly worse prospect — according to the ZAP
Model — than Jayden Reed and Rashee Rice. But you could very easily argue that
he’s the most intriguing of the three moving forward.

Dell’s season was cut short thanks to a fluke injury, but he was balling out
before that happened. Like Rice and Reed, his yards per route run ended up being
one of the better ones we’ve seen from a rookie wide receiver since 2011. Only 10
wide receivers were better within the metric. And Dell didn’t get there on screens
— his 14.4 average depth of target was 24th-highest among 50-plus target rookie
wideouts over the last 12 years.

One of the question marks with Dell last offseason was how his size might
translate to the NFL. Would he be typecasted as a slot-only guy?

Nope.

Dell ran fewer than 30% of his routes from the slot. Rashee Rice, for comparison,
was at nearly a 50% slot rate.

As you know, the Year 2 Model uses prospect scores. Dell’s 73.1 ZAP score is
embedded into his 93.6 Year 2 score. That’s the reason we’re not seeing his result
into the upper 90s. The only way for him to have gotten there would’ve been for a
Puka Nacua-level campaign.

This is where Journey Comparables can help. As you can see, Dell probably has the
best Journey comps in this wide receiver class. He’s grouped up with late Day 2,
early Day 3 picks who had killer rookie seasons. People questioned the validity to
those seasons, but each one of them kept it going and became great pieces in
fantasy football.

That’s a big reason to lean into Dell this offseason. Go ahead and trade for him.
Go ahead and tell yourself, “Dude, you’re getting a Dell.” (Zoomers may not
understand that reference.)

Tank Dell is here to stay.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 122
JAXON SMITH-NJIGBA                                                          92.8
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Seattle Seahawks
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.5
                                                                             98.1
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Brandin Cooks • Treylon Burks • Tyler Boyd

There’s no getting around it: Jaxon Smith-Njigba’s rookie season was a
disappointment.

Say what you want about the competition in Seattle. Say what you want about the
way the Seahawks used JSN. Say what you want about how bad the landing spot was.
The fact still remains: It was a disappointing year for Jaxon Smith-Njigba.

There’s not a lot that we can feel great about statistically. He ended the year
with a respectable 17.0% target share per game rate, a number that should get a
little extra love given the competition he played alongside. Ironically, that was
the same share Doug Baldwin saw in Seattle years ago as a rookie slot player.

Baldwin, however, was a much more efficient wideout for the Seahawks back in 2011.
While he finished his rookie year with an impressive 2.22 yards per route run
rate, JSN ended his at 1.32. That’s a 28th percentile rate.

A key issue for Smith-Njigba in 2023 — aside from having to compete for targets
with Tyler Lockett and DK Metcalf — was how the Seahawks used him. He had an
average depth of target of just 6.4, one of the lowest in the league, and he
actually led all 30-plus target players in percentage of targets that came behind
the line of scrimmage, per PFF. When a dude is getting a 15-plus-air-yard target
on just 12.8% of his looks, you can’t have sky-high expectations.

If you want a small ounce of good news for JSN, it’s that DK Metcalf and Tyler
Lockett combined to only miss one game this past year. It was a Week 7 contest
against Arizona. Metcalf was out. In that game, Smith-Njigba posted his highest
target share, receiving yard total, and fantasy point total of his rookie season.
He also played in the slot at the lowest rate of his season.

It’s fair to say that Smith-Njigba’s situation is pretty uncommon — much more
uncommon than any Journey Comparable will show. That’s why this is a tough case.
On one end, you’ve got the ingredients of an overvalued dynasty asset. On the
other, nothing we saw in 2023 told us that JSN was exceptionally bad. He made some
really nice plays. He showed off his route-running ability. And, when he finally
got an opportunity, he had a solid outing.

I’d sell JSN now if I was getting a discount on another higher-end second-year
wideout in return. His drop in score is troublesome.
Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                123
JOSH DOWNS                                                                  92.0
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Indianapolis Colts
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       13.1
                                                                                81.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Tyler Lockett • Jarvis Landry • Courtland Sutton

Josh Downs was beloved by the Z-Prospect Model last season, and the ZAP Model
doesn’t mind him, either. At least compared to where he was drafted.

He came through as a rookie, securing an 18% target share and an above-average
1.60 yards per route run rate.

Downs entered the NFL, per the model, with Tyler Lockett as one of his top comps.
He and Lockett had very similar peripherals as rookies, too. Lockett’s target
share per game rate was just a couple of percentage points lower. His yards per
route run was 1.57. Downs had a receiving yards per team pass attempt rate of
1.34, while Lockett’s was 1.36.

The difference between the two is that Downs was handcuffed to the slot as a
first-year player. He ran 81% of his routes from that area of the field. Lockett,
as a rookie, was at 33%. Lockett is often looked at as a slot guy — likely because
of his size — but he generally has been around the 45% to 50% slot rate mark
throughout his career. Downs didn’t show us he could be that in Year 1.

He did display an ability to be a really productive slot player, though. That’s a
baseline for Downs. At worst, he stays locked into that role and gives us WR3-like
production, with spikes when the Colts are forced to pass more. But there’s always
a chance he develops into more of a premier slot player in the league, similar to
his number-two Journey Comparable, Jarvis Landry.

There are a lot of cool and interesting outs for Downs, which is why he’s someone
you might want to consider targeting before the season begins. If you’d rather not
make the investment in dynasty, his ADP on Underdog is more than reasonable. You
could buy into him there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                124
MICHAEL WILSON                                                              86.4
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Arizona Cardinals
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.1
                                                                             66.1
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Romeo Doubs • Antonio Callaway • John Brown

Michael Wilson didn’t have the strongest prospect profile. His top-100 draft
capital helped out his score, but he had a Breakout Score of 0 because his
adjusted receiving yards per team pass attempt just missed the lowest threshold
needed for a score.

Wilson battled injury throughout college, and he battled injury a bit in 2023.
Injury proneness is likely not as real as some make it out to be, but that’s
something to monitor with Wilson.

The peripherals for Wilson in Year 1 were…fine. His Year 2 score is relatively
high because the Cardinals used Wilson as a starter for most of the year, so he
was able to accumulate some numbers on volume alone. A 14% target share per game
rate and a 1.36 yards per route run isn’t going to get you up in the morning,
though. That doesn’t scream “league-winner”.

A fantasy football role player? Sure. Arizona’s in a spot where they’ve got a good
quarterback but lack weapons, so Wilson has a shot to continue being a starter in
2024. Just don’t bet on him being an outlier. Wideouts in the 80 to 90 range in
the Year 2 Model give us a 16-plus PPR point per game season in Year 2 or Year 3
at about a 7% rate. A 14-plus PPR point per game season — more WR2 territory —
happens at an 18% clip. That’s a more reasonable higher-end outcome for Wilson.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 125
DONTAYVION WICKS                                                            86.2
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Green Bay Packers
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       10.0
                                                                             44.1
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Darnell Mooney • Donovan Peoples-Jones • Tyreek Hill

Dontayvion Wicks became just the fifth wide receiver in the ZAP Model to have a
prospect score below 60 prior to hitting a 2.00 yards per route run rate as a
rookie. The other four were Robert Foster, who had a horrifically bad ZAP score,
Donovan Peoples-Jones, Hunter Renfrow, and Tyreek Hill.

Considering the poor prospect score, that’s not a bad group to be in.

Wicks didn’t have as strong of a PPR points per game average in Year 1 as Renfrow
and Hill had, and that could lead to disappointment. The vast majority of ZAP
Model receivers with a score south of 60 failed to register a double-digit PPR
point per game season as a rookie. Among that group — Wicks is part of it — only
eight were able to get to 10 or more points per game in Year 2 or Year 3. Just one
had a Year 2 and Year 3 season max above 14 PPR points per game, and that was
Allen Hurns, who didn’t produce very long.

Anything can happen, and a Year 2 score of 86.2 isn’t something to totally ignore.
Wicks’ strong per-route-run numbers put him in a rare category, too. But, chances
are, Wicks won’t be someone you’re plugging into your lineup every week no matter
what. The competition in Green Bay could cause some unpredictable performances on
a weekly basis.

Wicks is still someone I’d love to have on my dynasty rosters, especially if it’s
a best-ball league. Even in redraft, his early 2024 ADP via Underdog is quite
reasonable. He could be considered a target there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              126
DEMARIO DOUGLAS                                                             84.6
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               New England Patriots
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       9.2
                                                                            49.5
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Hunter Renfrow • Darnell Mooney • Trent Taylor

Demario Douglas was a pleasant surprise out of last year’s draft class. We
sometimes see this with slot players, but his prospect profile wasn’t all that
impressive. Since he was a smaller-school player, he got dinged a bit in Breakout
Score. He did have an OK receiving yards per team pass attempt year in 2022 — his
final collegiate season — but it was also his fourth year out of high school. He
wasn’t spectacular, either.

We saw a similar thing happen with Hunter Renfrow. People remember Renfrow’s
career in college because he made some important catches for Clemson, but his age-
adjusted numbers were pretty ordinary.

Renfrow is Douglas’ top comp, which seems fitting. Both entered the NFL as
undersized slot players with mediocre college production. Douglas had a 17.5%
target share per game rate as a rookie, while Renfrow was at 17.7%. Douglas’
average depth of target was 8.0, Renfrow’s 7.2 — they were both fairly low.
Douglas ran 68% of his routes from the slot, Renfrow 72%. Douglas had a worse
yards per route run rate at 1.70, but that’s still an above-average number for a
high-volume rookie wide receiver.

To put that all another way, Demario Douglas, like Hunter Renfrow, had a pretty
great rookie season as a slot guy.

Renfrow had a strong few seasons in the league before dropping off, and Douglas is
in a spot to do the same thing. New England lacks alternatives in their offense,
and Douglas is a more explosive player than Renfrow ever was. That could allow him
to have a longer peak in the NFL.

Douglas is the type of player who’s more valuable in dynasty formats with deeper
starting rosters. He has a real shot to be somewhat of a target hog in the short
term within that offense, and sometimes that’s enough to crack your starting
lineup, even if those touches aren’t overly valuable. It’d be totally reasonable
to try to trade for him this offseason if you need a high-floor WR3 or WR4 type.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 127
QUENTIN JOHNSTON                                                               81.6
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Los Angeles Chargers
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       8.0
                                                                               89.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Stephen Hill • Jonathan Baldwin • Nelson Agholor

Quentin Johnston had a wide range of outcomes entering the league, and it’s
looking like he’s hitting the lower-end of that range.

Johnston’s list of Journey Comparables are Dexter-series-finale levels of bad.
We’re looking at a lumberjack ending. Stephen Hill played two years in the NFL.
Jonathan Baldwin (Hail 2 Pitt!) played three. Nelson Agholor is still getting
cardio on the football field at times, now for Baltimore, but he’s been a huge
first-round disappointment.

A Year 2 score of 81.6 isn’t a death sentence, per se, but when a wide receiver
sees this big of a dip, it’s close to one.

Johnston ended his rookie season with a 0.88 yards per route run rate. Of the wide
receivers in the Year 2 Model with a sub-1.0 rookie-season yards per route run
rate and a ZAP score between 85 and 95, just two were able to have a season in
either Year 2 or Year 3 with 13 or more PPR points per game. Those two were DJ
Chark, who’s mostly disappeared ever since, and Davante Adams, who ended up being
one of the biggest post-rookie season outliers in the history of the sport. The
majority of these players — 68% of them, to be exact — were unable to get to 10 or
more PPR points per game as second- or third-year wide receivers.

That’s just one (predictive) data point, yes. There are plenty of others that
paint a terrible picture for Johnston. He saw a target on fewer than 14% of his
routes run last year. Only five other rookie wide receivers with 50 or more
targets since 2011 were that bad at getting looks. His target share per game,
despite playing in an offense that needed weapons throughout the season, was under
11%.

The list goes on and on.

It would be pretty surprising if Johnston turns things around, especially now that
he’s going to be playing with a new coach in what’s expected to be a more run-
centric offense. I know it seems early to say that, but we have plenty of evidence
suggesting that turnarounds from a player like this are rare.

You don’t, however, need to trade him away for anything. The market, in most
cases, is already accounting for this. I just wouldn’t blame you for trying.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 128
MARVIN MIMS                                                                 80.3
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Denver Broncos
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.5
                                                                            79.0
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Randall Cobb • Denzel Mims • KJ Hamler

It’s easy to fall victim to anchoring bias in fantasy football. When something
interesting goes down early in the season, that something becomes ingrained into
our minds. We remember it. It’s anchored. And we often assume it continues
throughout the duration of the season.

Marvin Mims started the 2023 season off hot. Kind of. He was so, so efficient with
his touches — he was one of the league-leaders in yards per route run for the
first chunk of the season — but the volume wasn’t matching. The Broncos just
refused to give him more work in the offense, giving touches to players like
Brandon Johnson instead.

If we take off our Marvin Mims blinders…maybe the Broncos were right?

We knew we were working with small sample sizes, but Mims regressed across the
final three-quarters of the season. His ending yards per route run rate was a
fairly ordinary 1.54. That’s not a bad number, but when you combine it with a 7.4%
target share per game average, it’s not nearly enough to think Mims is a star.

Denver used Mims in a similar way that he was used in college: down the field. As
an Oklahoma Sooner, Mims had average depth of targets of 17.0, 17.6, and 15.4.
Totally absurd numbers. As a rookie for the Broncos, his aDOT was 15.2. That’s an
85th percentile mark among rookie wideouts since 2011.

We just didn’t see enough Mims in 2023 to say he’s definitively good or bad. We
know that usage is indicative of future success, and Mims wasn’t able to hit
strong numbers on the volume front. That matters. Since 2011, of the hundreds of
wideouts in the Year 2 Model database who failed to get past an 8% target share
per game rate as rookies, only 14 were able to score 10 or more PPR points per
game in either Year 2 or Year 3. Randall Cobb is by far the best player in that
group. The rest have been pretty replaceable assets in fantasy football.

Fortunately, Mims should see opportunity in 2024 with Jerry Jeudy getting traded
to Cleveland. In early March, Sean Payton mentioned that Mims played a redundant
role to Jeudy in the Denver offense, so we should see him as a starter this year.

It just seems reasonable to not expect high-end production. Getting WR2 output is
in Mims’ range of outcomes, but anything more would kind of make him an outlier.

Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              129
JALIN HYATT                                                                 80.2
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               New York Giants
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.4
                                                                            88.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Rueben Randle • Ryan Broyles • Stephen Hill

Both the Z-Prospect Model and the ZAP Model are Jalin Hyatt fans. He had nearly a
90 ZAP score in spite of third-round draft capital, driven by a Fred Biletnikoff
Award-winning season in 2022.

Hyatt did have some concerning pieces to his analytical prospect profile. During
that wild and productive 2022 campaign, he lined up in the slot on 87% of his
snaps. As someone who profiled more as a field-stretching perimeter receiver in
the NFL, there were questions as to how that would translate.

The answer thus far: Not well. Hyatt was in the slot on just 11.7% of his routes
run as a rookie — that’s Wan’Dale Robinson’s role for New York — and he captured
just an 8.3% target share. His yards per route run couldn’t reach 1.00, a figure
that most first-year wide receivers get to.

Hyatt did have a positive catch rate over expected, per Next Gen Stats, and he
ended the year with an absurd 20.7 average depth of target. If we’re being honest,
it’s hard to ask a lot from a player when he’s being used in a fairly one-
dimensional way within an offense that had bad quarterback play.

That does mean that we should be wary of the Giants using Hyatt in a higher-volume
capacity, though. He’s not a proven outside receiver, and they’ve got plenty of
options in the slot. The only way I’d be optimistic is if we get word that his
role is going to change.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              130
JONATHAN MINGO                                                              80.0
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Carolina Panthers
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       7.1
                                                                            82.0
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Dede Westbrook • Bryan Edwards • Taywan Taylor

The ZAP Model database has over 400 wide receivers in it who failed to reach a
0.80 yards per route run rate during their rookie seasons. Many of those wideouts
were undrafted and didn’t get a lot of run as first-year players, but among that
group, only four were able to score 12 or more PPR points per game in either Year
2 or Year 3. Those four were Cecil Shorts, Allen Hurns, Willie Snead, and Nelson
Agholor, players who didn’t amount to much from a fantasy perspective in the NFL.

Jonathan Mingo, ladies and gentlemen, had a 0.78 yards per route run in 2023.

Woof.

The odds that Mingo ends up being a reliable contributor for us in pretend pigskin
are slim. He was bottom five in the NFL in catch rate over expected, per Next Gen
Stats, and he scored just 5.7 PPR points per game.

The market seems to have corrected for Mingo, as his dynasty startup average draft
position is much lower than it was a year ago. Because the Panthers are going
through so much change this offseason, you could argue that trading Mingo away
right now just isn’t worth it. He’s ranked as the WR60. You can’t get much for
him. Why not just ride it out, see if Bryce Young takes a massive Year 2 leap with
Dave Canales, and cross your fingers for WR3 or WR4 production from Mingo?

That’s what I’d likely do, even though we shouldn’t expect much from Mingo moving
forward. You’d be lucky to get WR4 numbers based on history.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               131
TRE TUCKER                                                                    77.8
                                                                            Y2 Score


WR               Las Vegas Raiders
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.6
                                                                             63.4
                                                                           ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Quintez Cephus • Kelvin Harmon • Marquez Valdes-Scantling

Tre Tucker’s Year 2 score, to be quite honest, is surprising. He came into the
league with a 63.4 ZAP score and an awfully poor Draft Capital Delta, and he only
scored 4.8 PPR points per game as a rookie.

Why does his Year 2 score look…competent?

Tucker finished 2023 with a yards per route run of 1.48. That’s pretty ordinary
for a first-year wideout, but for a receiver with such a poor ZAP score, it’s
actually not a bad number.

Do I believe Tucker is going to be a fantasy wideout you can lean on? No, I don’t.
He had only a 7.3% target share per game average for the Raiders last year, and
his Journey Comparables aren’t very inspiring. If we had someone in there who was
a long-term winner, maybe we could throw a fifth-round pick out there for Tucker.
But there aren’t many successful wide receivers who’ve seen his marks.

If he’s on your dynasty league’s waiver wire, then, sure, throw that dart. Maybe
he can turn into a true vertical threat for the Raiders after hitting a 19.2
average depth of target in 2023. His Year 2 score definitely tells us that he
should at least be rostered.

Just don’t expect him to be anything more than a bye week fill-in.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 132
TREY PALMER                                                                 77.0
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       6.3
                                                                            52.7
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Mack Hollins • JJ Nelson • Travis Benjamin

The Year 2 Model doesn’t like Trey Palmer as much as I do.

Remember, it’s fine to inject some subjectivity into this process.

Palmer’s lower-than-anticipated Year 2 score comes down to the fact that he played
with Chris Godwin and Mike Evans last year. When that’s the case, it’s going to be
hard to post efficient numbers.

And his numbers definitely weren’t efficient. His 12.4% target share per game rate
wasn’t all that bad, but a 0.84 yards per route run average isn’t going to cut it.
Neither is getting a target on 15% of his routes run.

As you read with Jonathan Mingo, players with that low of a yards per route run
rate almost always fail to become consistent producers in fantasy football. The
difference between Mingo and Palmer is that Palmer actually played alongside legit
competition.

But that competition might not change.

Mike Evans is staying in Tampa given the new contract he recently received.
There’s a chance the Bucs cut Chris Godwin — there’s an out for them this
offseason — but that’s not close to a lock. If the two of them are back, then
Palmer is stuck in a similar spot as he was in 2023.

Strictly from a numbers standpoint, we’re not looking at a wide receiver who’s
probably anything more than a depth piece without an injury in his offense. You
could consider going after him in best ball — that’s different — but as a reliable
option? He’ll need Godwin out in order to get there.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                               133
CEDRIC TILLMAN                                                              73.0
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               Cleveland Browns
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.1
                                                                            79.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: JJ Arcega-Whiteside • Brian Quick • Josh Boyce

Yards per route run has been referenced about 500 times so far in this guide.
Because it’s predictive. It matters. It’s an indicator for future success.

Cedric Tillman, among all 158 rookie wide receivers since 2011 to hit 40 first-
year targets, had the worst — the 158th — yards per route run rate.

We can keep this pretty short: Tillman is going to need to be a big anomaly to
work out in fantasy football. Not only is the yards per route run grouping him in
a low-probability bucket, but players with Year 2 scores between 65 and 75 have
yet to give fantasy managers a season of 16 or more PPR points per game in either
Year 2 or Year 3. Only DJ Chark scored more than 12 points in one of those
seasons.

Elijah Moore and Amari Cooper are likely to be around in 2024, and Cleveland just
added Jerry Jeudy to the mix. Things are not looking good for Tillman, a player
some draft analysts really loved last offseason.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 134
AT PERRY                                                                    72.8
                                                                          Y2 Score


WR               New Orleans Saints
Expected Max PPR PPG Season:                       5.1
                                                                            40.9
                                                                         ZAP Score

Journey Comps: Jeremy Kerley • Rishard Matthews • Cody Core

We can’t say AT Perry didn’t have opportunity in 2023. Michael Thomas was his
usual banged-up self, Chris Olave missed a game, and Rashid Shaheed missed a
couple, too. Perry turned in just one top-30 performance, and it came in Week 18
when he caught all three of his targets for 53 yards and a pair of scores.

Perry had an OK Breakout Score in the ZAP Model, but after getting selected 195th
overall last year, we had to temper expectations. And hopefully you did just that.
He finished his rookie campaign with a below-average 1.18 yards per route run
rate, barely surpassing 6 PPR points per game.

On the plus side of things, only six wide receivers had a better catch rate over
expected than Perry last year. He also led the NFL, according to Next Gen Stats,
in passer rating when targeted. That’s not all that meaningful on the forecasting
side of things, but it’s still noteworthy.

Perry is probably going to be a role player in fantasy football. You can keep him
on your bench, but we shouldn’t imagine a world where he’s an every-week starter.
That just doesn’t happen for players with a 72.8 Year 2 score very often at all.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              135
Closing
This has been cool. For real. A lot of work goes into this thing each year,
and reading messages of excitement about the guide is awesome. It
sincerely puts a smile on my face.

And I hope this monstrosity put a smile on yours.

There’s no guarantee that my analysis will spot this year’s Isiah Pacheco
or Tank Dell. I can’t promise a awless rookie draft for you.

But I can tell you that this process is very real. We’ve now beat the
fantasy football market with two prospect guides, and I’m ready for a
threepeat.

If you’re reading something like this, you’ve got, without a doubt, a little
bit of nerd in you. (Probably a lot of nerd, if we’re being honest.) It’s
been a pleasure to be a total geek with you.

Here’s to another year of rookie draft values.




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                              136


                   fl
Rankings
Rookie Rankings
                        Single-QB Top-48                             Superflex Top-48
                    Player         Pos   Pos   Tier              Player         Pos   Pos   Tier
          1   Marvin Harrison      WR      1     1     1   Caleb Williams       QB      1     1
          2   Malik Nabers         WR      2     2     2   Marvin Harrison      WR      1     1
          3   Rome Odunze          WR      3     3     3   Malik Nabers         WR      2     2
          4   Xavier Worthy        WR      4     4     4   Jayden Daniels       QB      2     2
          5   Brian Thomas         WR      5     4     5   Drake Maye           QB      3     3
          6   Brock Bowers          TE     1     4     6   JJ McCarthy          QB      4     3
          7   Jonathon Brooks      RB      1     4     7   Rome Odunze          WR      3     3
          8   Caleb Williams       QB      1     5     8   Xavier Worthy        WR      4     4
          9   Jayden Daniels       QB      2     5     9   Brian Thomas         WR      5     4
         10   Ricky Pearsall       WR      6     6    10   Bo Nix               QB      5     4
         11   Ladd McConkey        WR      7     6    11   Brock Bowers          TE     1     4
         12   Keon Coleman         WR      8     6    12   Jonathon Brooks      RB      1     4
         13   Trey Benson          RB      2     6    13   Michael Penix        QB      6     5
         14   Drake Maye           QB      3     7    14   Ricky Pearsall       WR      6     5
         15   JJ McCarthy          QB      4     7    15   Ladd McConkey        WR      7     5
         16   Ja'Lynn Polk         WR      9     7    16   Keon Coleman         WR      8     5
         17   Xavier Legette       WR     10     7    17   Trey Benson          RB      2     5
         18   Adonai Mitchell      WR     11     7    18   Ja'Lynn Polk         WR      9     6
         19   Jermaine Burton      WR     12     8    19   Xavier Legette       WR     10     6
         20   MarShawn Lloyd       RB      3     8    20   Adonai Mitchell      WR     11     6
         21   Jaylen Wright        RB      4     8    21   Jermaine Burton      WR     12     7
         22   Troy Franklin        WR     13     8    22   MarShawn Lloyd       RB      3     7
         23   Roman Wilson         WR     14     8    23   Jaylen Wright        RB      4     7
         24   Bo Nix               QB      5     9    24   Troy Franklin        WR     13     7
         25   Ben Sinnott           TE     2     9    25   Roman Wilson         WR     14     8
         26   Malachi Corley       WR     15     9    26   Ben Sinnott           TE     2     8
         27   Javon Baker          WR     16     9    27   Malachi Corley       WR     15     8
         28   Blake Corum          RB      5     9    28   Javon Baker          WR     16     8
         29   Kimani Vidal         RB      6    10    29   Blake Corum          RB      5     8
         30   Malik Washington     WR     17    10    30   Kimani Vidal         RB      6     9
         31   Jalen McMillan       WR     18    10    31   Malik Washington     WR     17     9
         32   Michael Penix        QB      6    10    32   Spencer Rattler      QB      7     9
         33   Ray Davis            RB      7    10    33   Jalen McMillan       WR     18     9
         34   Jacob Cowing         WR     19    10    34   Ray Davis            RB      7     9
         35   Ainias Smith         WR     20    11    35   Jacob Cowing         WR     19     9
         36   Tyrone Tracy         RB      8    11    36   Ainias Smith         WR     20    10
         37   Ja'Tavion Sanders     TE     3    11    37   Tyrone Tracy         RB      8    10
         38   Rasheen Ali          RB      9    11    38   Ja'Tavion Sanders     TE     3    10
         39   Devontez Walker      WR     21    11    39   Rasheen Ali          RB      9    10
         40   Theo Johnson          TE     4    11    40   Devontez Walker      WR     21    10
         41   Luke McCaffrey       WR     22    11    41   Theo Johnson          TE     4    10
         42   Dylan Laube          RB     10    11    42   Luke McCaffrey       WR     22    10
         43   Erick All             TE     5    12    43   Dylan Laube          RB     10    10
         44   Braelon Allen        RB     11    12    44   Erick All             TE     5    11
         45   Isaac Guerendo       RB     12    12    45   Braelon Allen        RB     11    11
         46   Jaheim Bell           TE     6    12    46   Isaac Guerendo       RB     12    11
         47   Audric Estime        RB     13    12    47   Jaheim Bell           TE     6    11
         48   Will Shipley         RB     14    12    48   Audric Estime        RB     13    11




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                  137
ZAP Model Rankings
                Running Back                      Wide Receiver                         Tight End
             Player          ZAP                Player          ZAP                Player           ZAP
  1   Jonathon Brooks        93.8    1   Malik Nabers           99.5    1   Brock Bowers            99.3
  2   Trey Benson            84.1    2   Marvin Harrison        99.3    2   Ben Sinnott             83.9
  3   Blake Corum            79.1    3   Rome Odunze            96.0    3   Tip Reiman              81.8
  4   MarShawn Lloyd         74.6    4   Xavier Worthy          95.6    4   Theo Johnson            73.4
  5   Braelon Allen          72.3    5   Brian Thomas           94.5    5   Jaheim Bell             68.5
  6   Jaylen Wright          70.7    6   Ricky Pearsall         89.7    6   Ja'Tavion Sanders       67.8
  7   Isaiah Davis           70.0    7   Ladd McConkey          87.5    7   Erick All               63.6
  8   Ray Davis              69.8    8   Ja'Lynn Polk           86.5    8   Cade Stover             51.7
  9   Will Shipley           67.8    9   Keon Coleman           86.4    9   AJ Barner               50.3
 10   Isaac Guerendo         66.4   10   Xavier Legette         86.2   10   Jared Wiley             44.1
 11   Dylan Laube            63.9   11   Adonai Mitchell        84.0   11   Tanner McLachlan        20.3
 12   Rasheen Ali            62.5   12   Troy Franklin          77.7   12   Devin Culp               6.3
 13   Kimani Vidal           59.8   13   Jermaine Burton        76.9
 14   Audric Estime          58.7   14   Roman Wilson           75.7
 15   Jase McClellan         58.2   15   Jalen McMillan         74.6
 16   Keilan Robinson        54.4   16   Malachi Corley         71.8
 17   Tyrone Tracy           51.7   17   Luke McCaffrey         69.5
 18   Bucky Irving           51.0   18   Javon Baker            67.6
 19   Frank Gore             49.8   19   Jacob Cowing           65.5
 20   Jaden Shirden          41.4   20   Devontez Walker        65.3
 21   George Holani          39.6   21   Ainias Smith           64.1
 22   Michael Wiley          33.1   22   Jha'Quan Jackson       53.4
 23   Daijun Edwards         22.2   23   Malik Washington       51.5
 24   Cody Schrader          17.9   24   Jamari Thrash          49.3
 25   Miyan Williams         15.8   25   Anthony Gould          49.2




Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                                      138
     Rookie Rankings Notes
     - Marvin Harrison is now in a tier above Malik Nabers because of his
           Year 1 safety. Nabers is just as good of a player, but Harrison projects
           better for 2024 in the Arizona o ense, and that’s enough to separate
           the two. Make no mistake: Nabers is still elite.

     - Many may consider these rankings low on Brock Bowers, but Xavier
           Worthy and Brian Thomas got the capital and found great landing
           spots. I have some concerns about the Raiders using Bowers properly
           — he was sort of a luxury pick on a rebuilding team, and that makes
           me naturally question them. They’ve also got Michael Mayer there
           along with no real quarterback plan. He’s still in the same tier as those
           wideouts, but I prefer the wide receivers in a vacuum. Sam LaPorta is
           coming o the best tight end rookie season of all time and he still isn’t
           reaching the rst round of super ex drafts. Tight end is just devalued.

     - Yes, Drake Maye versus JJ McCarthy is a very tough decision.
           McCarthy has a better projection for me in Year 1, if that helps.

     - Knowing what to do with Michael Penix is impossible because I’m not
           sure Atlanta knows what they want to do with him. He’s one of those
           “feel out your draft” kind of players.

     - The Pearsall/McConkey/Coleman tier is quite di cult to decipher. A
           move by the 49ers makes Pearsall the clear winner there. Without a
           move, and he could have a rougher rst year. I just used the model to
           decide, in the end.

     - A big debate folks are probably going to have is Ja’Lynn Polk versus
           Adonai Mitchell. The model sees Polk as the better prospect, and as
           Mitchell’s write-up says, Indianapolis is kind of an overrated wide
           receiver destination. They’re in the same tier, but give me Polk.

     - The running back class didn’t get ideal landing spots. Blake Corum
           took a huge hit by going to LA, so he was subjectively bumped down in
           the rookie rankings. Would anyone be surprised if Kimani Vidal had a
           better rookie campaign? Corum’s in a tier above Vidal because of




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                                 139


                                             ffi
                                       fi
                                  fl
                             ff
      fi
ff
       talent and prospect score, but Vidal is an underrated back. Don’t
       sleep on him.

     - The model is low on Malachi Corley, so I’m relatively low on Malachi
       Corley. Of course the Jets could force feed him the ball in ways that’ll
       maximize his strengths — almost like what the Chiefs did with Rashee
       Rice last year — but I don’t trust that o ensive sta . I also don’t think
       Corley is as good as Rice was as a prospect. Huge variance to his
       pro le.

     - You can probably gure out why players are ranked where they’re
       ranked based on their write-ups. That’s what they’re for, after all.
       There are a lot of players — Jaylen Wright, MarShawn Lloyd, Jacob
       Cowing — who may end up being more stashes than huge Year 1
       winners. Keep that in mind as you draft.




     Late-Round Fantasy Football: 2024 Prospect Guide
     Jump To: ZAP Model | Year 2 Model                                             140


                                            ff
                                ff
           fi
fi
